8 
seeds received from the Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew, were a thousand each 
of the two new varieties of Manicoba Rubber. Of the variety called “Jiquie” 
Manihot dichotoma 202 seeds germinated, whilst of the variety “Remanso” Manihot 
Piauhyensis out of a similar number of seeds only 12 have germinated so far. These 
two rubbers are fully discussed in the “ Kew Bulletin” No. 2 for 1908 and are said to 
be infinitely superior to “ Ceara Rubber” ( Manihot Glaziovii). As regards their 
suitability for this country it is hardly likely that they will seriously compete with 
Hevea braziliensis, for not only is the rubber from the last-mentioned species better, 
and fetches a higher price to the extent of nearly sixpence per lb., but the former is 
essentially a rubber adapted for a drier and less fertile country than the Malayan 
region. That it is to be reckoned with however as regards the world’s supply of rubber 
is shown by the fact that according to the “India Rubber World” a German 
Company has bought 800,000 acres in Bahia with the intention of planting these 
rubbers ; and other Companies are being formed for its cultivation. It is, however, 
important to have another species of rubber on hand in case of disease on a large scale 
attacking the Para, and I propose planting out the young stock now on hand as possible 
seed suppliers of a future date. 
Para Rubber. 
8. The two chief estates in Province Wellesley, Caledonia, and Bertam are going 
steadily and increasing their acreage; and on the Island it is noticed that some of the 
Chinese spice planters are planting up Para where once nutmegs and cloves were 
grown. 1 he old tree in the Gardens was again tapped during the year and yielded 
3 lbs. 8 ozs. of dry rubber making the total yield since the first tapping over 40 lbs. 
A photograph of this tree was sent to the Rubber Exhibition at Olympia together with 
the actual rubber it had produced. Unfortunately the rubber obtained from it some 
years ago had not kept well but had become very black and tacky and consequently when 
it was sold at the close of the show it could only be classed as “rejections” and 
brought only $37.03. The exhibit nevertheless created a good deal of interest. 
Sale of Plants. 
9. These fell off considerably during the year owing partly to depleted stock 
and partly to the fact that last year a larger number than usual of the kinds of plants 
sold such as Ferns, Begonias, Palms, etc., was purchased which checked the demand 
this year. The amount realized $375 as against $1,1 1 1 last year. 
Governor’s Hill Garden. 
10. Notwithstanding the usual unsatisfactory labour, supply and the excessive 
rainfall 171 inches, the plants and grounds were maintained in an efficient condition 
and Mr. FERNANDO deserves credit for the neat appearance of the grounds. Mr. CURTIS 
presented a hundred bulbs of tuberous-rooted Begonias and Messrs. HERB of Naples a 
collection of bulbs which have been potted up for experiment as to their suitability for 
the Hill. 
Coconut Trees Preservation. 
11. The appointment of a Sub-Inspector of Coconut Trees made last year has 
been entirely satisfactory. He is stationed on the Island thus allowing the Inspector to 
devote the whole of his time to Province Wellesley. It is now possible for the Districts 
at the back of the Island to be visited properly and regularly, a thing impossible 
before. From the Returns appended it will be seen that on the Island 328 notices 
were issued calling on owners to destroy 371 dead trees, 594 trunks, and 35 heaps of 
manure. There was only one prosecution ; owners readily complying with the notices 
served on them. The difficulty, however, in the case of the small holdings, is to find 
the owner. 
In the Province 316 notices were served to destroy 338 dead trees, 980 trunks, 39 
heaps of manure, and four heaps of paddy husks. There were three prosecutions 
during the year with small fines amounting of $7.50. On the whole the Province is 
fairly free from beetle attack, the District most attacked during the year was from 
Sungai Nior as far as Simpa. 
General. 
12. I attended the fifth joint Agricultural and Horticultural Show which was 
again held at Kuala Lumpur in August, the first of the series having been held there in 
1904. On the whole the Show was a good one, far more so than the comparatively 
local Show held the year previous at Kuala Kangsar. To the trained eye, however, 
one or two Divisions were weak, markedly so, in the Horticultural section. Penang 
