I * 
19 
Appendix C. 
Botanic Gardens, 
Penang , 2nd November, 1900. 
SlR, — In accordance with your verbal permission to proceed to Perak to 
or four days to obtain more definite information about the range o . 
trees, &c, on Taiping Hills, and to collect Orchids and other plants of interest 
for cultivation in the Public Garden here, 1 left for Faiping a 1 ' ^ 
October, and returned at 7 p.m. on the 30th. , , Wb1v 
2. On arrival in Taiping l proceeded first to the Museum where Mr. L. YY RAY 
the Curator, kindly allowed me to look through his herbarium specimens of 
Sapotacex, in which order are included our most important Gutta . UC1 "f 
trees, and gave me much valuable information. He also showed me samples of 
Gutta from various species, most of which have been co ected al ^ F e P^ ed y 
himself, and as the herbarium specimens were collected at the same tune and from 
the same tree these samples are of more than ordinary interest and value^ 
r. On leaving the Museum I walked up to Maxwell s Hi 1 where Mr. DERRY, 
Superintendent of Government Plantations, gave me all the information and 
assistance in his power. . /mu i 
4. During my stay in Perak I saw only two species of Uichopsis ( I aoanj 
neither of which appear to be Dichopsis Gutta, and until fiowering and fruiting 
specimens are obtainable their specific names- must remain more or less doubtful. 
I showed Mr. YVray leaf specimens^ on my return from the hill and he thought 
they corresponded with what the Malays call Taban Chaier and Taban Putih and 
which have been determined for him at Kew as Dichopsis polyantha and I). 
bust ul at a. In the absence of flowers or fruit the difference in appearance is not 
great. At a little distance they look all alike, but those in Perak and Penang, and it 
is" only on examining them closely that one sees there is a difference. 
5 . The question of the correct botanical, name, although most desirable to 
know is not of so great importance as the question of the quality of the Gutta and 
the situation in which each particular species is found growing naturally, so that in 
any planting scheme we may plant the right species and in the right place. 
6. On the Taiping Hill, Taban Putih (D. pustulata?) extends up to 3,000 teet 
and is most abundant at 2,000-2,500 feet. I collected a small sample of gutta and 
it is so far as I can judge of good quality. Mr. YVray who knows the tree well 
informs me that it is always considered very good gutta, but not so good as 
Dichopsis Gutta (Taban merah). ■ 
7. Dichopsis gutta occurs only at low elevations. Much of the available and 
uncultivated land in Penang that it is desirable to re-afforest, such, as areas within 
the Reserves and abandonted spice gardens, are at an elevation of from 1,000-2,000 
feet and it therefore seems probable that this Perak mountain form D. pustulata ? 
will prove more suitable for planting in places in Penang than D. gutta. 
8. Dichopsis polyantha? (Taban Chaier) grows at a much lower elevation than 
D. pustulata ? (T. Putih) and is found quite down to the foot of the hill, but as 
Dichopsis Gutta also grows at low elevations and is the more valuable of the two, 
this will probably be of less importance as a tree for planting unless it should prove 
that it is the quicker grower or yields a greater quantity of gutta which might com- 
pensate for the difference in price. On these and many other points more definite 
information than is at present available is wanted. 
9. Of Orchids, Palms, and other plants for cultivation in the garden, I collected 
great numbers. 
1 have, &c., 
C. CURTIS, 
Assistant Superintendent of Forests. 
Ml 
