1 6 
General. 
• 
40. Excursions to Selangor, Perak and Langkawi Islands, for the purpose of 
collecting herbarium specimens and plants for garden cultivation, &c., have been un- 
dertaken ; the three trips occupying twenty-nine days. A large number of both 
living and dried plants were obtained on each occasion and the latter have been dis- 
tributed to the Botanic Gardens of Singapore, Calcutta, Kew, &c., only one set being 
preserved for reference in Penang. Many interesting Gesneriaceee and other plants, 
both living.and dried, were collected in Langkawi, some of, which ap # pear to be new, 
but owing to other duties it was not possible to find time to arrange the dried spe- 
cimens for distribution until near close of the year, and the living plants were not 
sufficiently established to travel. 
Langkawi is a delightful place and the botanical collector who is fortunate enough 
to visit these Islands at the most favourable season will reap a rich harvest. The most 
intelligent natives say that the large trees flower during the dry season, which is, no 
doubt, true, but I suspect, as in Penang, good flowering season only occur at intervals 
of from three to five years or more. I noticed on one of the smaller islands a gigantic 
Bassia, and on Gunong Raya the natives quickly collected a quantity of dammar for 
torches from a species of Dipterocarpus ; but in both cases the specimens are too 
imperfect for determination. 
41. At the request of the Director specimens of gutta were forwarded from the- 
Dindings, and subsequently efforts were made to obtain a supply of seeds for planting, 
without success. The kind of which seeds are particularly wanted is Payena Leerii , 
known as “ Getah Sundek.” It appears to be a free flowering tree, but seeds are 
difficult to obtain and the only one I have ever seen was -kindly sent me by Mr. L. 
Wray of the Perak Museum. There is a species closely allied to this in Penang, 
which I have carefully watched for two seasons, and although flowers were abundant 
not a single fruit formed. 
• 
42. The planting community in Province Wellesley haying shown considerable 
interest in the raising of sugar cane from seed, two considerable sowings in boxes and 
pots in various situations were made, but a very small germinated, I should say one in 
millions ; and several of these have since dried off. 
43. Liberian coffee planted at Kubang Ulu in the nursery y^here it has received 
no particular attention has done well and is undoubtedly a ’cultivation that would pay 
on some of the land in that district now laying waste; one thousand young plants, 
have been distributed free to natives who made application for them. 
44. The usual interchange of plants and seeds has been continued, the number 
of plants received being 1,264 and seeds 64 packets; while the numbers distributed 
are plant 6,213 an d seeds 10 packets. 
Thanks are herewith tendered to correspondents who have so kindly contributed 
plants and seeds to the Gardens. 
