4 
Europe, 
Silene penduliflora , compacta. 
Alyssum maritimim a m . 
Tanacetum vulgar e. 
. Salvia glut inos a. 
Plant and Seeds Sent Out. 
Excluding Para rubber seeds, 21 r packets of mixed seeds and 244 packets of 
palm seeds were distributed throughout the year. The recipients were : — The Botanic 
Gardens of Brussels, Berlin, British Guiana, Buitenzorg, Calcutta, Cambridge, Ceylon, 
Durban, Edinburgh, Formosa, Glasnevin, Hongkong, Kew, Manila. Nishigawara, 
Japan, Ogasawara, Japan, Saigon, Seychelles, Tonga, South Pacific, Uganda, 
Washington, Victoria, Department of Agriculture, Federated Malay States, Damnian 
& Co., Dreer & Co., Philadelphia, and the Department of Agriculture, Mysore. 
Plants were also supplied to Government House Domain, the Resident, Malacca, 
General Hospital, Military Gardens at Blakan Mati, A. J. SIMONS, Pontianak (in 
exchange), Tan Ben CHIANG (in exchange), and the Botanic Gardens of Kew and 
Mysore. 
Herbarium. 
The herbarium was largely increased by the collections made in the expeditions 
of the Director, and the Penang herbarium made by Mr. CURTIS was transferred to 
Singapore, and such plants as were required from it to complete the Singapore collec- 
tion were incorporated therein. The following additions were made by exchange : — 
from Manila 59 ; Sarawak 8 ; from Calcutta chiefly Malayan plants of Wray and 
Kunstler 297; British Museum 10; from Mr. Kloss, Malayan plants 21; and specimens 
were also received from Mr. BURN-MURDOCH, and Mohamed Haniff. 
The following were the plants sene out : to Kew Gardens 675, British Museum 620, 
Calcutta 266, Berlin 193, Manila 99, Buitenzorg 14, to Mr. LILLY a number of mosses 
for identification. 
The Singapore collection of Laurineae and the Lorantkaceae , Proteaceae , and 
Thymeleaceae were sent on loan to Mr. Gamble for the materials for a Flora of the 
Malay Peninsula, a number of palms also to Dr. Beccari for his work in the 
Lepidocaryeae, and some ferns to Colonel Beddome to whom we are indebted for iden- 
tification of the Selaginellas and many ferns. Some injurious fungi attacking rubber 
trees were sent to Kew for investigation and one of them proved to be a new species 
of Eutypa, described as Etitypa caulivora by Mr. MASSEE in the “ Kew Bulletin. ' 
Several specimens of timbers of interest were added to the collection including 
those of Balau Betul, Shorea materialis Ridley and Balau Bukit, Shorea collina 
Ridley, described from specimens sent by Mr. A. M. BurN-MuRDOCH, 
Expeditions. 
The Director visited Penang to take over the herbarium, library and 
such plants as were required for the Singapore Gardens in view of the 
abolition of those of Penang. After this he made an expedition to Kedah, 
Perlis and Setul. The object of this botanical expedition w'as to discover 
the boundary line between the Siamese flora and that of the Malay Peninsula. 
Large collections of herbarium specimens and living plants were made and brought 
to Singapore. These with the collections from Lankawi Islands made by Mr. CURTIS 
and the Director, the collections of Dr. Keith in Bangtaphan and by other 
collectors in Trang, Tongka and such localities show that there is a complete 
change of flora at Alor Sta in Kedah and prove that at no distant date the Malay 
Peninsula south of Kedah 'peak was isolated from Tenasserim by a large tract of sea 
dotted about with islands of limestone rock, abounding in seabirds whose guano still 
remains in the caves of these islands. The flora of this new settled region was 
derived from Burmah and Siam, and contains hardly any purely Malay element. A 
full account of the expedition and the flora of this country is prepared for the press. 
Many thanks are due to Mr. W. G. Maxwell and Mr MEADOWS-FROST for great 
assistance to the Director in making these researches. 
A short expedition was made earlier in the year to Kota Tinggi in Johore where 
aided by Mr. Lfc^Doux the Director obtained a large series of river bank plants, 
among which were a remarkable new Utriculana with extremely long stems and a 
new species of Medinilla. A number of interesting plants were also obtained in a 
