I think the most interesting was a plant of Tainia Maingayii, H. K. F. which though 
previously described from dried specimens had not been, so far as I am aware, in 
cultivation. It has a scape 2-3 ft. high with 10-14 flowers 5-6 inches across, of a 
reddish brown colour, and lasts in flower five weeks. This is said to have been 
collected by Maingay in Penang but I have got it only in Perak and there in only 
one locality. Liparis venosa Ridl. is another charming little plant that flowered in 
the garden. 
19. During a short trip to Perak in August a great number of living plants and 
seeds were collected, as well as specimens for the herbarium and distribution, A 
report on this trip was furnished the Hon'ble Resident Councillor on my return, a 
copy of which is annexed (Appendix B), 
20. A successful Flower Show was held in the Town Hall in February, the 
gardens being considered too far off for the convenience of exhibitors, followed by a 
Promenade Concert on the evening of the second day. 
2-1. Plants and seeds have been exchanged to about the same extent as in pre- 
vious years and there has been the usual amount of correspondence on horticultural, 
botanical, and planting matters. Rubber is the subject in which a good number are 
interested and to as many as I have had an opportunity I have recommended the 
Kew Bulletin of October last containing information up to date on Para Rubber. 
All interested in the subject sh g Id get it. Seeds of this tree are in great demand 
and any quantity could be disposed of h^re at a good price. 
Government Hill Gardens. 
22. The Governor’s Hill Bungalow garden has been maintained in fairly good 
order but Mr. O’Keefe, the Overseer in charge, reports that frequent changes among 
the Tamil Coolies and the irregular attendance, especially immediately after pay day, 
causes much trouble and inconvenience. 
23. From January to June the Garden was at its best both as regards flowering 
plants and vegetables, of which a pretty regular supply has been kept up. From July 
to the end of November but little can be done with flowering annuals and only a 
very limited number of kinds of Vegetables can be grown, on account of the heavy 
rains. 
24. At the Flower Show held in the Town Hall in February, a nice collection of 
Vegetables from this garden was exhibited, the Leeks and Beet being specially noticeable 
and somewhat of a surprise to most of the visitors. 
25. Burmese and other Orchids planted on the trees have flowered freely. 
Vanda Ccerula, which flowers during the rains, had on one of my visits in August 
over thirty flower spikes. Plants of Azalea indica obtained from Japan flowered 
well and deserve to be more extensively cultivated in the hill gardens. 
26. Repairs to paths, rendered necessary by the heavy wash, is a constantly 
recurring demand on labour, and the slipping of banks during rains is by no means 
infrequent. Carrying water a long distance whenever there is a spell of dry weather 
is also a matter of great importance as regards labour. Taking these and other 
matters into consideration a larger staff is required, in proportion to the area of the 
grounds than in the Waterfall Garden. 
Experimental Nursery. 
27. During the past two years little has been done to the Experimental Nursery 
beyond keeping it clean. Two men only have been kept here and a portion of their 
time has been devoted to keeping clean the paths round the Convalescent Bungalow 
so that the actual expense is not much, but small as it is, it is scarcely worth 
keeping up. 
28. It is conclusively proved, I think, that fruits &c. from temperate climes for 
which this Nursery was originally intended require greater elevation than is obtainable 
in Penang and the steepness of the site and nature of the soil render it unsuitable for 
the experimental cultivation of most kinds of plants. 
29. A piece of level, or moderately level, land within easy distance of the 
Waterfall Garden for the introduction and trial of plants likely to be of commercial 
value would be a useful acquisition, but I know of no Crown Land available and the 
cost of purchase would be a considerable item. There is plenty of land within the 
limits of the present garden but it is all too steep for this purpose. 
C. CURTIS, 
Assistant Superinte?ident of Botanic Gardens , 
