20 
27. The Garden staff and the Forest watchmen have been assisted by a 
band of extra coolies in clearing the brushwood between the lake and the new road, 
about 14 acres in extent, and a portion of it has been planted with 541 Nibong ( Oncos - 
perma tigillaria) and 45 Kabong palms. 
28. Owing to the unusually heavy rainfall, the general works of maintenance, 
especially of roads and paths, absorbed a larger amount of labour than usual. 
Forest Reserves . 
# 
29. The principal works of the year consisted of preservation and maintenance 
of boundaries. 
30. The number of fires which occurred this year within the Forest Reserves 
was two- one at Ayer Kerch which burnt down about 15 am s of lalang and brushwood 
in patches; and another at Sungei Udang which destroyed about 2 acres of lalang. 
Both fires, I believe, originated from the burning of lalang grass. The rapid and easy 
ignition of grass on hot days makes it exceedingly difficult to detect the offenders 
or to prevent the destruction. 
31. There were three prosecutions — two for cutting and removing timber from 
the reserves, and one for theft of fruit from the Bukit Panchor Reserve. Three per- 
sons were arrested and convicted, and fines to the amount of $26.09 inflicted, of which 
$6.09 was paid. 
32. The total number of Forest watchmen employed was 24, comprising one 
Corporal, eight Lance Corporals, fourteen Constables, and one Orderly. All worked 
well, and there were no complaints against them. They were supplied with uni- 
forms this year. 
33. About one-third of the useful timbers planted up on the watershed of the 
water works died, and the rest have grown well. Owing to much sickness and ex- 
cessive rainfall at Ayer Keroh, 1 was unable to get coolies to clearthe lalang and plant 
some more useful timbers on the watershed. It was very fortunate that I had not 
planted them, as a great fire occurred on the 13th of October last and burnt down all 
the lalang and brushwood on the land where I intended to plant the forest trees. 
34. Additions have been made to three Forest Stations during the year at a 
cost of $897.28. 
35. The wood-oil trees in the Sungei Udang Reserve have been farmed to a Malay- 
man of the name of Dali, at $36 per annum, who paid the rent in advance regularly. 
36. In October last, I purchased 1,500 Sagu Rumbia (Sagus la ?vts) seedling 
plants for $20, and planted them on the nursery opposite the new cooly-line, where 
they are growin g well. 
37. It has been proposed to take in the Bukit Kuan and Bukit Katil hill chain 
as mentioned in Mr. DERRY’S report for 1890, but as 1 had to do the Land Office work 
as well, 1 was unable to attend to the above work. During the year, I demarcated, 
subdivided and registered 579 holdings in the Mukims of Padang Semabok and Ujong 
Pasir and also attended to applications for lands for tapioca cultivations, etc., etc. 
38. Bukit Panchor Reserve.- — The Forest watchmen have been assisted by a 
band of coolies in reclearing three and a half miles of old boundaries, at a cost of $30. 
39. Batang Malaka Reserve. — Three miles of new boundary line have been 
opened, at a cost $17.50. 
40. Batu Tiga Reserve. — Half a mile of boundary line has been reopened at a 
cost of $2.25. 
41. Ayer Panas Reserve. — Two and a half miles of boundary line have been re- 
cleared, at a cost of $20.75. 
42. Two hundred and twenty-eight dried specimens of plants were collected dur- 
ing the year and forwarded to the Director of Gardens and Forests, Singapore ; some 
1 
