9 
r. The Forest Reserve has remained untouched during 1898. No cases of 
timber cutting have been discovered. ^ * * 
3. The Reserve has been watched throughout the year by a Forest Guard. It 
has been visited regularly by the Forest Ranger. 
4. The District Officer paid two visits to the Reserve during the year. 
5. No fires occurred during 1898. 
6. No planting operations were undertaken. 
7. No applications for timber were received. 
R. J. FARRER, 
The Dindings. 
STATEMENT OF AREAS. 
1. Lumut 
2. Pangkor 
3. Tanjong Hantu ... 
4. Gunong Tunggal 
f Bukit Segari ... ... ••• 1 
^'t.Telok Sera . .. 
6. Tanjong Burong 
District Officer. 
a. 
900 
1,250 
400 
700 
1,600 
450 
The Reserves have been regularly patrolled and the boundaries periodically 
cleared during the year. . . ' , 
No fires occurred and no cases of timber cutting or theft of jungle produce in 
the reserved areas were reported. . _ . , 
The head-quarters of the Forest Guards have remained as in 1697, viz., at Lumut 
(2), for watching the Lumut, Pangkor and Tanjong Hantu Reserves; at Bruas (3). 
Tanjong Burong, Telok Sera and Segari; and at Beting Luas (2), for Gunong 
Tunggal- sen( . staff of G uarc ] s may be considered adequate for supervising the 
actual Reserves and preventing the felling of tinnber and the theft-except on a very 
petty scale— of Jungle produce ; but it is certainly insufficient to check effectually the 
constant pilfering of small timber, rotans, getah, etc., which goes 011 in Crown Jungles- 
other than the Reserves in all parts of the. Territory, The care of the Reserves alone 
more than occupies the whole time of the Forest Guards, and the net result of their 
efforts during the past 12 months was 47 arrests, a figure which probably does not 
represent more than 5% of the actual number of offences committed In my opinion 
the present strength of the Forest Staff should be doubled, and Stations established 
at Pangkor, Tanjong Hantu, Segari and Sungei Rotan A Station at Sunge. Rotan 
is absolutely necessary if that district is to be properly looked after; to reach it, the 
Guards must, under existing conditions, walk 74 miles from their nearest head-quar- 
ters at Pangkalan Bharu, and must cover the same distance again on their return in 
the evening; they can hardlv be expected to execute any very energetic patrol under 
the circumstances. The place, which is traversed by the trunk-road from Roping to 
‘ Chcndrono- Klubi, offers perhaps greater facilities than any other portion of the 1 erri- 
> '’"Xtorv for the illicit removal of timber, etc., into Perak. The small sum, however, 
S, /which it was requested should be inserted for this purpose in the current estimates 
was disallowed, as was also the suggestion that a small vote ($50 was named) should 
be allotted annually for the maintenance of Forest Reserves At present there is not 
a single dollar available with which to meet any incidental expenditure connected 
with Forest work here, e. g., the salving of timber which has been felled, but aban- 
doned in the Jungle, and which, if brought to Lumut or Bruas and sold by auction, 
would more than repay the expense involved in its transport. It should also be men- 
tioned that the Guards, although one of their chief duties is to keep the Reserve boun- 
daries clear of undergrowth, are not even provided with “ parangs for the purpose 
Another point to which I would call attention is the necessity of providing the 
Guards with uniforms, as is done in Perak ; hitherto they have not been supplied even 
with a badge to denote their authority, and small blame could be attached to any 
i 
