8 
Library and Herbarium. 
12 For the former the usual periodicals have been purchased or received from 
other Botanical and Agricultural Establishments. Mr. Wright’s Cantor lecture on 
Para Rubber was purchased, and Volume IX, Part II of the Annals of Calcutta Botanic 
Garden, containing descriptions and drawings of the Orchids of North-West Himalaya 
presented. Various volumes of periodicals and journals have been bound. 
The Herbarium building although repaired is still very unsatisfactory. During the 
latter part of the year the excessive damp and consequent mould on thte specimens has 
been very troublesome, but with the aid of charcoal fires in chatties the Herbarium has 
been kept as dry as possible. Something however must be done, or the life of the 
Herbarium will not be a long one, and considering the cramped space for Office and 
Library, and the urgent need of a room suitable for a store for tools, seeds, bulbs, 
rubber" and other specimens, this need would be met by converting the Herbarium into 
a store and erecting a new one on arches instead of a ground-floor on sloping ground. 
A space of 30 by 20 feet would suffice for a herbarium. 
Owing to arrears and pressure of work, I was not able to suggest any collecting 
trips, but the garden Overseer paid a visit to the Singapore Gardens and obtained 
eleven ca^es of miscellaneous plants, all desirable additions to this garden. 
Rubber Notes. 
13. Including the trees at the old experimental nursery on the hill there are 
43 Para trees in the garden ; of these seventeen are over three feet in girth, nineteen 
over and seven under two feet. 1 had expected there were more. In the absence of 
MOHOMED HANIFF it was necessary to train a man to tap and 21 trees were tapped 
and 35 lbs. of Rubber obtained. Now that a man can tap without injury, this work 
will proceed better although the drying process is difficult and long, through smoking 
being necessary owing to the damp situation of the garden. 1 he old Para tree supplied 
two pounds of dry Rubber making the grand total from this tree 37 lbs. 13^ ozs. All 
the Rubber is not yet dry enough for sale. 
Governor’s Hill Bungalow Garden. 
14. The labour band has been very unsatisfactory, but thanks to the energy of the 
Overseer in charge (Mr. Fernando), the grounds have been maintained in good order. 
The Rainfall amounted to inches 124-17 of which amount 57-41 inches fell in the 
three months of September, October, November, or an average of 19 inches. As might 
be expected in such inclement weather the vegetable supply fails but improves with the 
dry season, when unfortunately the want of a water supply is a serious drawback. 
A few introductions such as Lima and Runner beans are promising and a few 
seedlings of the Tree Tomato ( Cyphonuindva betcicccL) have been raised. 
Vegetables are no longer supplied free, and since last September a sum of $ I 5*37 
has been collected for supplies to Government Bungalow. This amount is included 
in the Waterfall Garden Return. A sum of $51 .89 was expended in the purchase of new 
roses, which arrived in perfect condition and will be planted when established. Flower 
and vegetable seeds cost $25.22. 
Coconut Trees Preservation. 
15. The number of notices issued in connection with infected trees and manure 
not properly stored amounted to 755. 
Fortunately for this Settlement beetles are the only pest and the dreaded Bud-Rot 
has not appeared ; but the area to be inspected is far too large for one Inspector, and a 
Sub-Inspector is allowed for next year. 
There were nine prosecutions in Penang and four in Province Wellesley. The fines 
inflicted amounting to $15.50 only. I strongly think this leniency will result in more 
unnecessary work for the Inspectors and the real work of inspection will fall into 
arrears. It may not seem a serious breach of the Ordinance for a small foot bridge or 
fence of coconut stems to be- used and in solitary instances there would not be any 
danger of maintaining breeding grounds for the beetles, but if every one so utilized 
their fallen stems (and this is done in Province Wellesley far too much) an additional 
danger in this direction would exist, as the attention of the Inspectors would be divided 
between unburied stems and standing trees. 
General. 
16. I attended the Agri- Horticultural Show held at Kwala Kangsar in August 
and took charge of the Penang exhibits. There were 122 exhibitors and 700 entries 
