4 
A set of FORBES' 1 plants (895) from Java, Sumatra, and Borneo, received in 
exchange from the British Museum. 
One hundred and ten Indian plants from Mr. R. D. Hudson. 
Three hundred and seventy-two Plants of Texas collected by LlNDHElMER 
presented by the Mussouri Gardens. 
Specimens were also received from Mr. Burn-Murdoch from Selangor, Mr. 
Foxworthy (Borneo), Mr. Micholitz, Mr. Merrill and Mr. Elmer from Manila. 
The collection of Laurineae was loaned to Mr. Gamble for the flora of the 
Peninsula. Five hundred and seventy-six plants were sent in exchange to the British 
Museum, 1,600 to Kew, 256 to Berlin Botanic Gardens and 195 to the Manila Botanic 
Department. 
Three pairs of new cabinets were made for the Herbarium. 
Publications. 
An index to the three volumes of Monocotyledons of the Malay Peninsula 
published the previous year was printed. A full account of the Scitaminese of 
the Philippines was completed. A paper on a number of new and rare Malayan plants 
were published by the Director in the “Journal of the Royal Asiatic Society/’ Straits 
Branch, and also a list of the ferns of the Malay Peninsula and an account of the 
Labiates of the Malay Peninsula. 
The “Agricultural Bulletin ” appeared monthly as usual and w'as in much request. 
It was found necessary, however, to make some changes in the method of publication. 
Formerly it was to a large extent printed by the Government Printing Office. But 
this occasioned great delay in the appearance of the numbers and as the planters were 
anxious to have the reports of the Association meetings brought out punctually on the 
.first of the month, it was necessary to transfer the whole of the publication to the 
American Mission Press. The cost of having the “Bulletin” thus published by an 
outside Press was, however, considerably in excess of the revenue obtained for the 
“ Bulletin by subscriptions and sales. To meet this it was necessary to procure 
advertisements and to increase the cost of the “ Bulletin ” from $3 a year to $5 for 
subscribers. 
The number of subscribers to the “ Bulletin ” is steadily increasing. 
The Artist resigned his position at the end of the year. The Botany lectures to 
the Medical Students were delivered by the Director twice a week from August to the 
end of October. 
Water Installation. 
The installation of a water supply to the Gardens was completed early in the 
year. This work was commenced late in 1907, but it was not until this year that the 
installation was completed. 
The scheme has proved an entire success far beyond expectations and has proved 
a great saving of both money and labour. 
The engine worked constantly during the year and gave no trouble. The water is 
pumped up by means of a two-horse-power oil engine from the lake well into a 5,000- 
gallon iron tank at top of the Gardens and radiates from there by means of pipes to 
different parts of the Gardens and Plant Houses. In all six standpipes are at present 
in use. 
Economic Gardens. 
In the Economic Gardens a new r Office was built and furnished as mentioned in a 
previous paragraph, and the quarters of the Clerk and the Foreman-Gardeners were 
entirely rebuilt by the Public Works Department. 
About 3! acres of scrub were cleared and dug at the end of the Garden, 20 
extra coolies and a Mandore were employed on this work for two months. A part of 
the wood on the top of the hill was thinned out and cleared of climbers and ferns, and 
Nutmegs and Cloves were planted through it in lines. It seems clear thus Nutmegs 
do better in partial shade than in full sun. The scrub on the hill sloping to Cluny 
Road, was thinned out for planting Camphor trees, and the Gutta Percha trees on this 
ground w ere cleared round, and are making a good grow th. Crotalaria seed was sown 
