6 
Boudreau, W. J. — Modern rice culture. 
Marlatt, C. L.— -Woolly aphis of the apple. 
Couter, J. E. — Cultivation of Sisal in Hawaii. 
Wilcox Mead, E. — A Leaf-curl disease of oaks. 
McFarlane, John J. — The World’s Commerce. 
Trelease Annual Report of Missouri Gardens Experimental Station Record. 
Report on the United States Philippines Commissioners. 
Annual Reports on the Department of Agriculture, U. S. A. 
Journal of the New York Botanical Gardens, 
Annual Report of the Smithsonian Institution. 
Report on the Agricultural Soils of Luzon. 
Gilmore, Report on Commercial fibres of the Philippines. 
Report on the Government Laboratories of the Philippine Islands. 
Musgrave, W. E. and Clegg, M. T. — Trypanosoma and Trypanosomiasis. 
All presented by the U. S. A. Government. 
The following Journals, etc., have been presented by their respective Institutions : — 
Jamaica Bulletin, Dominica Agriculturist, Journal of the Department of Agriculture, West 
Australia, Bulletin du Jardin Botanique (Brussclls), Forest Department of Australia (An- 
nual Report), Acti Horti Petropolitani, Planting opinion, presented by Editor, Indian 
Forester, Pharmaceutical Review, Chemist and Druggist, lournal D'Agriculture Tropi- 
cale, Agricultural news of the West Indies, Journal of the Board of Agriculture, Revue 
des Cultures Coloniales, Bulletin de la Societe d' Etudes Coloniales, Bulletin Economique 
de Madagascar, Agricultural Journal of ihe Cape of Good Hope, Bulletin Economique 
de lTndo-Chine, Bulletin Economique de Hanoi, Trinidad Bulletin. Report on the Agri- 
cultural work in the Botanic Gardens of British Guiana, The Dominica Agriculturist, 
Records of the Botanic Survey of India, New York Bulletin, Report ofi the Experiment 
Stations, Montserrat, Annual Reports of the Forest Department, Madras, Proceedings 
of the Agrihorticultural Society of Madras, Indian Museum notes, Ceylon Garden report, 
Ceylon Circulars, Annual Report of the Taj and other Gardens at Agra, Merck’s An 
nual Report, Transvaal Agricultural Journal, Journal of the British Honduras Society 
of Agriculture and Commerce, Annual Report of the Cape of Good Hope, leones 
Plantarum, Kew Bulletin, Journal of the Imperial Institute, Agricultural Ledger, 
Bulletin de 1’ Institute Botanique de Buitenzorg, Queensland Agricultural Journal, 
Journal of the Department of Agriculture, Western Australia, Land Record of the 
N. W. Provinces, Calcutta Botanic Garden Reports, Calcutta Report of Cinchona 
Plantations, Bulletin of the Koloniaal Museum of Harlem, Der Tropenpflanzer, 
Annales tlu Musee du Congo, The Shamba, Meteorological observations of Zomba, 
Rainfall Forecasts and estimates of British Central Africa, Annual Garden Reports of 
the Botanic Gardens of Gold Coast, Uganda, Natal, Lagos, Zanzibar, Sierra Leone, 
Seychelles, Mauritius, Ceylon, Calcutta, Saharunpore, Travancore, Mysore, Lucknow, 
Buitenzorg, Hongkong, Fiji, New South Wales, Queensland, Acclimatization Society, 
Adelaide, Brisbane. Melbourne 1 , British Honduras, British Guiana, Trinidad, Jamaica, 
Barbados, Antigua, Bermuda. 
Purchased. 
Diet ion nai re 1 conographi q ue des Orchidees. 
Das Pfianzenreich (Engler). 
Warington. — Physical properties of Soil. 
Yeitch. — Manual of Coniferae. 
Index Ke wen sis (supplement). 
Hossfielcl’s Dutch Dictionary. 
Journals : — 
Indian Planting and Gardening; Gardeners Chronicle, Botanical Magazine, 
Journal of the Linnean Society, Tropical Agriculturist. 
Receipt and Expenditure. 
By balance in Bank 
Government Grant 
By Sale of Plants and Seeds 
Interest 
$ c. 
964.01 
8.407.00 
2,562.96 
24.18 
Total ... $11,958.15 
