ANNUAL REPORT OF THE BOTANIC DEPARTMENT, SINGAPORE. 
1. During the greater part of the year, Mr. Fox was absent, returning on Nov- 
ember 17th. I visited Penang and the Dindings in March, returning on April 9th, 
and was away also, in Selangor, from May 9th to June nth, being engaged in re- 
porting on the forests. During these periods, Mr. J. GOODENOUGH acted for me, and 
remained as Assistant till July 7th, when he was engaged as Mining Surveyor in 
Selangor. He was replaced by Mr. Melville, who remained till Mr. Fox J S return. 
2. The Herbarium-keeper, Ahmat Kassim, was discharged in August, and J. S. 
Isaac took his place. The Upper Garden Mandore, Yusuf, replaced Xavier as Man- 
dore of the Economic Gardens, and a man named JUMAT was employed in his stead. 
He proved unsatisfactory and was replaced by one Nathaniel, who was also quite un- 
suitable, and* on October 15th, Aniff, who had formerly been employed here, returned 
from Ceylon and resumed the post. Owing to the demand for coolies for the Native 
States, it was very difficult to obtain a sufficient supply for the Gardens in the early 
part of the year, and the high price of provisions and the fact that private employers 
and other establishments had raised the price of wages, in some cases very consider- 
ably, caused much discontent. There was a serious outbreak of beri-beri also in 
the lines in the spring, but, I am glad to say, only one death. 
Not only was the supply of coolies deficient during part of the year, but the 
class of coolies and mandores obtainable now is very inferior to what it was in pre- 
vious years, and wages, on the whole, are a little higher. The Javanese watchmen, 
having proved unsatisfactory this year, were discharged, and Sikhs were taken on in 
their place, and prove more suitable. 
There were a number of petty thefts and a few more serious ones, due chiefly 
to the action of the Javanese watchmen in collision with some of the coolies. The 
worst case was a charge against five soldiers of stealing plants and assaulting the 
Sikh watchman ; one soldier was convicted and sentenced to a term of imprisonment. 
Visitors, 
3. The number of visitors was quite up to the mark, and the Regimental Band 
played once or twice a month for part of the year, and was much appreciated. 
Aviaries. 
4. Some of the houses in the aviaries were repaired or re-constructed. The 
sheds in the deer-paddocks were closed in with planks, so as to darken them. This 
was found to relieve the animals very much from the annoyance caused by the flies. 
Among the additions to the collections were five common deer, presented by 
'Mr- J. F. CRAIG; one Axis deer, presented by Mr. Kiel; one mias, presented by Mr. 
G. P. Owen ; three common monkeys, presented by Mr. Jelley and Mr. E. SCHULTZE ; 
one Wawa ( Hylobatesvar .), purchased ; two slow Loris, presented by Mr. Trummer ; 
one squirrel (Sciur us bicolor), presented by His Excellency the Governor; one grey squir- 
rel! from Siam, purchased ; one wild cat (Felts planiceps), purchased ; four whistling teal, 
presented by Mr. A. MAXWELL; two Mandarin ducks [Aix sponsa ), presented by Mr. 
Hancock ; one large python, presented by Mr. Zavitz ; one monitor, presented by ■ 
Mr. DENNARD; one large tortoise (Emys sp .), captured in the Dindings. 
Some common monkeys were born, and another hybrid between Macacus nemes- 
trinus and M. sinicus , but it died at birth. The black Celebes monkey ( Cynopithecus 
niger) was crossed with a male Beruk [M. Nemestrinus ) but, unfortunately, died in 
parturition. The female jackal ( Cams aureus ) produced four pups. Three of which 
grew well and strong, the fourth crept through a drain into the adjacent tiger’s cage 
and was destroyed. The Sumatran heron continued to lay eggs, but none hatched. 
Among the deaths may be registered an eagle which had been in the ■ Gardens for at 
