8 
49- There is still great difficulty in obtaining suitable labourers at a reasonable 
price, and this will probably continue so long as there is a large demand in the Native 
States at a high rate of wages. 
50. The stock of plants in pots has greatly increased during the year, and 
some of those previously obtained have grown into good specimens. 
51. The Assistant Superintendent while on leave towards the end of the year 
obtained over six hundred plants and . trees, chiefly of an ornamental nature, from 
Burma and India ; a large proportion being from the Royal Botanic Gardens, Cal- 
cutta. Many interesting plants were also obtained from the Agri- Horticultural Socie- 
ties of India and Burma, and from Mr. C. Maries, Superintendent of State Gardens, 
Gwalior. 
52. The plants in pots are housed in temporary sheds of various kinds, accord- 
ing to the requirements of the plants cultivated, but it is hoped that the time is not 
far distant when means will be provided for erecting more substantial and elegant 
shelter. 
53. The light structures of T iron in the Botanic Gardens and Nurseries of Cal- 
cutta are, for elegance, economy and durability, preferable to anything I know of, 
and, with slight modification, quite suited to the requirements of plant cultivation in 
this climate. • 
54. In July, the use of the Government Steam-launch was granted for four 
days, for the purpose of visiting the Langkawi Islands to collect orchids and other 
plants suitable for cultivation in the garden, and for exchange. A copy of the report 
on this trip is annexed (Appendix F.) 
55. The idea of forming an ornamental lake at the top of the grounds, sug- 
gested in my last annual report, remains in abeyance, the Municipal Commissioners 
being uncertain whether this site will be required in connection with the water sup- 
ply or not. Its unsightly appearance will be brought still more prominently into 
view when the approaches to the new bridge are completed. 
56. The total cost of maintenance of this garden for the year is $3,496.43, and 
the construction of bridge and other new works $2,500. 
V. — General. 
57. Four hundred species of Penang plants have been added to the herbarium, 
and duplicates of each forwarded to the Royal Gardens, Kew, for determination. Two 
hundred and seventy surplus specimens have been presented to other botanical esta- 
blishments, and eighty received in exchange. 
58. One thousand one hundred and twenty-two plants, and sixty-three packets 
of seeds, exclusive of those obtained by purchase, were received during the year; and 
two-thousand five hundred and forty-one plants, and sixty-one packets of seeds dis- 
tributed, exclusive of those supplied for road-sides. A list of the principal donors and 
recipients is given in Appendix G. 
Penang, 
jrst January, 1889. 
C. CURTIS, 
Assistant Superintendent of Forests, Penang . 
