3 
Library. 
The following works have been added to the Library : — 
Hand-list of Ferns, presented by the Royal Gardens, Kew. 
Hand-list of Orchids, presented by the Royal Gardens, Kew. 
Hasskari. — Retzia, presented by the Royal Gardens, Kew, 
Taubert. — Gattung Stenomeris, presented by the Royal Gardens, Kew. 
Von.Mueller. — New species of Pycnarrhena, presented by the Royal Gardens, Kew. 
Von Mueller. — Rhododendron Carringtoniae, presented by the Royal Gardens, 
Kew. 
Baillon. — Bulletin Mensuelle de la Societe Linneene de Paris, presented by the 
Royal Gardens, Kew. 
Pierre. — Flore Forestiere de la Cochin-Chine, five parts, presented by the Royal 
Gardens, Kew and Calcutta. 
India Museum Notes, presented by the Royal Gardens, Calcutta. 
Annals of Calcutta Gardens, V, VI, VII, presented by the Royal Gardens, Calcutta. 
Duthie. — -Field and Garden Crops, presented by the Royal Gardens, Calcutta. 
Duthie.-^-Indigenous Fodder Grasses, presented by the Royal Gardens, Calcutta. 
Duthie. — Fodder Grasses of Northern India, presented by the Royal Gardens, 
Calcutta. 
Agricultural Ledger, presented by the Royal Gardens, Calcutta. 
Schlich. — Manual of Forestry, Voh V. presented by the Secretary of State for the 
Colonies. 
Annals de Jardin Botanique de Buitenzorg, presented by Dr. Treub. 
Koorders and Valeton.- — Boomsorten van Java, Vol. IV, presented by Dr. Treub. 
Trimble. — Tannins, Vols. I, II, presented by the author. 
Also, Gardens Report and Bulletins from the Gardens of Lagos (complete set), 
Jamaica, Barbados, Cape Colony, Madras, Ceylon, Michigan Botanic Depart- 
ment, State Agricultural College, U. S. A., Kolonial Museum Haarlem, St. 
Petersburg ; Forest Reports, Punjab and Madras, Kew Bulletin and leones 
Plantarum, from Kew Gardens. 
Purchased : — 
Vidal. — Sinopsis de familias lenosas Pilipinas. 
Decandolle. — Prodromus, Vol. IX.. 
Lodeman. — Spraying of Plants. 
Beccari. — Illustrationes de nuove e rare species Piantas. 
Cesati. — Mycetum Borneense. * 
Beddome. — Supplement to Ferns of India: 
L. Wray. — Practical Sugar Planter. 
Papers respecting the Culture of Sugar, East India Company — 1822. 
Reinwardt, Blume and Nees. — Hepaticae Javanicae. 
Von Mueller. — Sir W. Macgregor’s Highland Plants of New Guinea. 
A. M. Ferguson. — All about Aloe -and Ramie. 
Do., All about India-rubber and Getah Percha. 
Dr. Watts. — Index to Dictionary of Economic Products. 
Hooker, Sir J.— Flora of British India, last two parts. 
Bulletins. 
During my stay in Penang, I investigated the cause of the nutmeg disease which 
was so destructive in i860 and which was said to have re-appeared. I found it to be 
due to a small Scolytid beetle, and an acepunt of the disease and others incident to 
the nutmeg and clove trees was published as a bulletin. Two more bulletins dealing 
with the cultivation of spices and with Ramie, Para rubber and diseases of coffee, 
together with an article by Mr. Curtis on the cultivation of pot plants were prepared, 
and are in the hands of the printers. 
Camphor. 
During my stay in Selangor, I visited the camphor woods of Rawang, and 
obtained specimens of timber, leaves, etc. in order to experiment with them with a 
view of extracting the camphor, which commands an exceedingly high price. The 
material I brought being insufficient, the Resident sent down a beam of the 
wood on which experiments are still being made at the Laboratory of the Govern- 
ment Analyst. The camphor oil, Borneol, is easily extracted by distillation, but the 
solid camphor resists, at present, any methods of extraction. 
