9 
Appendix B. 
Botanic Gardens, 
Penang, Jth January , 1896. 
To 
• * 
The Hon’ble the Resident Councillor. 
Sir, — I have the honour to report that, in accordance with your permission, I pro- 
ceeded to Perak on the 21st December last, for the purpose of collecting plants for 
exchange and cultivation in the Botanic Gardens, also botanical specimens for the 
herbarium and distribution. I arrived at Ipoh, Kinta, at noon on the 22nd, and at 
once commenced exploring the hills in the vicinity. By the aid of two European 
residents, who knew the exact localities, I was enabled in a short time to get collected 
about 2,000 plants of what is locally known as “ Kinta Weed” ( Vanda Hookerii) y 
and a good number of “Tapah Weed ” ( Arundina bnmbusoe folia) ; the greater por- 
tion of which I purpose sending to England in exchange for plants received and 
brought out by me on my return from leave in September last. 
Near some hot springs between Ipoh and Tanjong Rambutan I obtained several 
interesting ferns and other plants suitable for pot culture. .Also three plants of 
Arissema fimbriata> a plant no-t hitherto recorded from the Peninsula, but abundant 
in the islands to the North of Penang. The water at these springs is so hot in places 
that it is painful to keep one’s hand in it. It is very clear, but without the strong sul- 
phur smell noticeable in some of the hot springs in North Celebes. 
On the morning of the 26th, I left Ipoh for Kuala Dipang, leaving the Malay man 
I took with me from Penang to complete the drying out of the botanical specimens, 
to pack the living plants and bring the whole direct to Telok Anson by rail to meet 
me on the 29th, which he did. 
On tfce way from Ipoh to Kuala Dipang I examined the limestone hills at three 
or four different places, having different aspects, and found several new plants. One 
of these is a new balsam, the second species 1 have discovered in this district. 
On the 28th December, being the last day of my stay at. Kuala Dipang, I went 
some distance up Gunong Bujong Malacca, to a Sakai clearing, and got one of the 
men as guide for the day. We did not get very far up the mountain — probably not 
more than 1,500 feet — for we struck a ravine so exceedingly rich in interesting plants 
that the tvvo men I had with me were loaded in a couple of hours. 
Many the plants collected were not in flower, but they are of great interest, 
and undoubtedly new to Gardens if not to botanists. 
One of the most interesting is a very distinct begonia with narrow almost lance- 
olate leaves quite unlike any other species of this genus with which I am acquainted. 
It is found growing on huge water-worn boulders in damp shady places. 
Small graceful palms suitable for pot culture are abundant, both in species and 
individuals, especially on the dry ridges, but unfortunately only a few seeds were 
obtainable. This is, I believe, owing to the fact that the monkeys eat them as fast as 
they ripen. It is very desirable that a more extended examination of the flora of this 
mountain should be made at the season when the greater number of plants are in 
flower, if one could ascertain when that is. In Penang, May and June are the best 
months and probably it iithe same on this mountain. 
There are Chinese miners working much higher up than the point I reached and, 
I b'elieve, there is a survey hut on the very top, so that there would be no difficulty in 
obtaining shelter for a few nights. 
I left Kuala Dipang to catch the train at Kampar on the morning of the 29th, 
intending to return to Penang the same evening, but on arrival at Telok Anson found 
there w’as no boat until the following day. This was unfortunate, as had I known in 
time it would have given me another day in the jungle. 
From an agricultural point of view, Kinta is the best district I have seen in Perak, 
and from what I hear, will before long be a large coffee-growing district. Many other 
products would do equally well in such rich soil, but the present tendency is all in 
* . favour of coffee. Ipoh is a large and flourishing town, very hot in the day time and 
• badly in want of shade trees. 
I have, &c., 
C. .CURTIS, 
Assistant Superintendent of Forests, 
% 
