2 
least twenty years, and a mouse deer ( Tragulus Kanchil) which had been five years 
in captivity and was evidently -very old. Both the remaining black swans on the lake 
were devoured by a large python, over sixteen feet long, which was eventually killed 
on the island in the lake. 
Plant-houses . 
• 
5. The large plant-house underwent considerable repairs and one side, the 
roof was covered with attaps in place of the laths which were rotten. The orchid- 
house was finished and proved very successful, and the small fern-house was re-con- 
structed, the tables being built of coral, and the roof made of split bamboo, which 
seems a very suitable covering for these plants. 
Lawns and Beds . 
A large portion of the hill near the new lake was cleared of fern, and turfed. 
New beds for the seedling palms were made at the foot of it, and many palms from 
the old beds removed there, the old beds being turfed over. The upper part of the 
new lake was excavated, and the banks raised and strengthened. This work was done 
by contract, and w r as rather laborious on account of the large masses of timber found 
in excavating. The road between the two parts of the lake was also raised. An 
addition of thirty-five yards was made to the fern rockery, and it was planted with 
ferns and other plants, and a small enclosure was made for growing roses in tubs, 
The avenue of Sabal Palmetto near the large lake was badly attacked by palm-weevils, 
and a number of the trees destroyed. 
Among the more interesting plants which flowered here for the first time or 
have rarely flowered were Galphimia glauca (an ornamental shrub), Citrus de- 
cumana var . (the Bali pumelo), Acalypha Sanderiana (New Guinea), Desmodium 
tortuosum (the North American beggar-weed, a fodder plant), Liparis pectinifera (a 
new species from the Dindings), Thunia Marshalliana (Burma), Dendrobium cinna- 
barinum (Borneo), D. inauditum (Amboina), Coelogyne Rumpkn (Amboina), Haben- 
naeria Susannas (Timor),' Thaumanto coccus Daniellii (West Africa), Alpinia vittata 
(New Guinea), Zingiber spectabile (Selangor), Amorphophallus Rex (Sumatra), 
Pennisetum macrostachyum (New Ireland). 
Herbarium . 
During the year, a considerable number of specimens were added to the her- 
barium. An extensive collection of plants from the interior of Selangor was made by 
the plant-collector during my stay there in the early part of the year, and a small 
number from the same district was sent by Mr. GOODENOUGH. Eighty specimens 
were received from Mr. CURTIS at Penang, 505 plants from Perak and India, presented 
by Dr. King, and a specimen of the wild pumelo from Pahang, presented by Mr. 
Machado. 
From Borneo were received a valuable collection of 223 ferns and 17 other 
plants from the Right Reverend Bishop HOSE, and a number of specimens from 
Sarawak by Dr. HAVILAND. From Java twenty-four specimens of Zmgiberaceae, 
presented by Dr. Treub. A collection of mosses from Bonthain Peak, Celebes, was 
received from Mr. A. EVERETT. A small series of, plant from New Guinea and 
Tenimber from Mr. Pereira. A specimen of the bastard teak from Christmas Island 
from Mr. Keyser, and Saccoglottis amazonica from Mr. Hart of Trinidad, and a 
collection of mixed plants, including Indian grasses named by Sir JOSEPH HOOKER, 
was received from Kew. A small collection was made by the Director in the Cari- 
mon Islands. . . 
The wood specimens were re-arranged, and a number of local species added, 
together with a specimen of an unknown Sandal wood from the interior of Pahang, 
presented by Mr. Machado, and a remarkable scented wood from Christmas Island, 
presented by Mr. KEYSER. 
The Guttas and India-rubbers were cleaned and re-arranged, and specimens of 
these and other economic products added to the collection. 
The following specimens were sent in exchange to various botanists :- Over fifteen 
hundred to Dr. King, Calcutta; 1,290 to the Royal Gardens, Kew; a named collec- 
tion to Dr. Treub, Buitenzorg; a small collection to the British Museum; and 
specimens of medicinal plants to the Pharmaceutical Society. A series of specimens 
of barks of chestnuts (Castanopsis) and mangroves, was sent to Dr. Trimble of 
Philadelphia, who is experimenting on the tanning properties of these barks. 
