2 
The Five and Drums' Band of the East Kent Regiment played every Wednesday, 
in the afternoon, and was much appreciated. The full band played also by moonlight 
on two occasions. 
Plants and Seeds received. 
There were 843 plants and 550 packets of seeds received. 
The contributors were as follows : — 
Tan Ben Chiang, Dr. Y. Fugini (Formosa), B. Kawake, Messrs. J. Carter & 
Co., (purchased). Commander E. Derij, Mr. Neubronner, Yokohama Nursery 
Albert Schulie (Hamburg), Mr. N. Fischer, Mr. Seah Leang Seah, M. Herb 
(Naples), and the Botanical Gardens of Jamaica, Edinburgh, British Guiana, Calcutta 
La Mortala, Kew, Paris, British Honduras, Missouri, Sydney, Darwin, Natal’, 
St. Petersburgh, Trivandrum, Gold Coast and Saharanpur. 
Plants and Seeds distributed throughout the Year. 
Excluding Para rubber seeds, 160 packets of mixed seeds and 60 packets of 
palm seeds were distributed throughout the year. * * 
The recipients were as follows : — 
_ The Botanic Gardens of Adelaide, Bangalore, British Guiana, Brussels, (Eala), 
British Honduras, Baroda, Calcutta, Cambridge, Ceylon, Edinburgh, Formosa, Glasne- 
vin, Jamaica, Kew, Lahore, Madras, Manila, Natal, Port Darwin, Seychelles, Sydney, 
New South Wales, Tonga (South Pacific), Washington, Uganda, (Entebbe), Christmas 
Island, Damman & Co., M. Herb & Co., F. Henkel (California), and H. Wright 
(L ondon). 
Plants were also supplied to Government House Domain, Raffles Girls’ School , 
the Bureau of Agriculture, Manila, Military Gardens at Blakan Mati, Commodore 
Dery (in exchange), J. van Brero (Samarang, in exchange), Tan Ben Chiang (in 
■exchange), Experimental Plantations, Taiping, and the Botanic Gardens of Kew, Port 
Darwin and Entebbe. 
New Plants, flowered. 
Among the interesting plants which flowered this year for the first time were : — 
Decaschistia pulcherrima, n. sp. — Setul. 
Bulbophyllum, sp. — Zamboanga. 
A reca glandiformis. 
Ardisia linear if olia , n. sp. — Perak. 
Shorea bracteolata . — Malay Peninsula. 
Careya arborea. — Indo-Chine. 
Payena grandiflora. — Sumatra. 
Chlorocodon Whitii. — Uganda. 
Wallichia disticha. — Assam. 
Pittosporum pentandru m . — Australia. 
Cestrum salicifolium. — South America. 
Bignonia hirtella. — South America. 
Cocos campestris. — South America. 
Acanthorhiza aculeata . — South America. 
C at t ley a, ( Brassio-ca ttleya ) . — M inerva. 
Dombeya , sp. 
Bnckinghamia celsissima . — F ruited . 
Expeditions. 
ab iC The Director visited Semangkoh Pass, Selangor, in the spring and obtained a 
large number of new plants and then made an expedition with Mr. H. C. Robinson 
and Dr. HamTSCH to the Pulau Adang group of islands off Lankawi, also in February 
in the Seabelle. A considerable collection of plants were made on these islands 
which had never before been botanically examined. In July, he visited with 
Mr. ROBINSON and Mr. Kloss the mountain of Gunong Tahan, in Pahang, where six 
years previously Messrs. Robinson and Wray had made an important collection of 
the flora showing the great interest attaching to this, our highest mountain. The ascent 
was made up the Tahan river and the whole expedition occupied seven weeks. • A 
