20 
13. Castor-oil ( Ricinus communis ), Calcutta variety, grows well and fruits freely. 
A sample of the oil prepared by boiling the seeds has, been sent to the Director for 
report. 
The oil had not any odour. 
14. A piece of land has been cleared and partly planted with varieties of South 
American tapioca, but the stock is not yet large enough to experiment with. I do not 
think it probable that any of the varieties will equal the local variety as a tapioca pro- 
ducing plant, but some of the varieties are excellent for cooking. 
15. Liberian Coffee. — Coffee planted on the ordinary soil of the Garden without 
manure has not proved a success. Coffee requires freshly cleared land or very liberal 
manuring. 
16. Cloves ( Eugenia caryophyllata). — The best success' of any experiment has 
been with cloves. Some of the plants are now 10 feet high which shows a growth 
of 5 feet for the year. None of the plants have been manured beyond the admixture 
of a little burnt earth when first planted. The dry red soil of the Settlement suits 
cloves admirably. 
17. Maltese lemons, nutmegs, Indian mahogany, camphor, West India crab- 
wood, and Mauritius hemp, reported on last year as growing well, have all made 
favourable progress during the year. 
18. A stock of patchouli and croton-oil are kept, but extensive cultivation has 
been discontinued as the demand for these products is limited. 
19. Towards the close of the year a large supply of seeds of the common fruit 
trees, such as rambai and rambutan, were sown. The duku crop was a failure, and 
mangosteens were not plentiful, so that a supply of these desirable fruits could not be 
obtained. 
Forest Reserves. * 
20- The principal work of the year has consisted of preservation and mainte- 
nance of boundaries, planting, opening inspection-paths, and demarcating the Bukit 
Batu Tiga and Batang Malaka forest reserves. , 
2 1 . The work of opening inspection-paths has proceeded as far as time and funds 
have been at my disposal, and two reserves have been completed, and two others 
commenced during the year. 
22. The watchmen have worked well. 
No fires have occurred, and two arrests for illicit wood cutting have been made. 
23. Bukit Bruang Reserve. — An extension of the reserve has been made on the 
eastern side, as shown on plan A * from the boundary to the road, between Bukit 
Kuau and the watershed of Ayer Keruh. 
24. This extends approximately 300 acres, is chiefly bluker and contains a large 
proportion of young Tampines and Kledang. 
25. The watershed of the proposed waterworks has also been added to the 
reserve, this extends about 500 acres, is chiefly Ialang, but contains a rich soil. 
26. Planting up the watershed with useful timbers has been commenced and 
8 acres have been planted as follows: — 
Fa grata peregrina , 
Slcetia sideroxyion , 
Pterocarpus indicus, 
Kumpussia malaccensis , 
Afzelia palembanica , 
Artocarpus chempedak, ... 
Parkia Roxburghii , 
Phyllanthus emblica , 
Calophyllum sp ., 
Hopea cernua, 
Diospyros sp., 
Antiaris toxic aria, 
Tembusu, 
... 4,026 
Tampines, 
..,2,280 
Sena, 
.. 2,140 
Kumpas, ^ 
... 42 
Merebau, 
... 340 
Chempedak, .... 
... 370 
Sepeter, 
... 40 
Kayu Malaka, 
... 3 ^ 
Mentangor bunut, 
... 66 
Penaga, 
11 
Seraya, 
8 
Chindarahan, . . . 
9 
Kayu arang, ... 
... 18 
Minyak brok, ... 
... 47 
Ipoh batang, ... 
16 
Total,... 
... 9,801 
* Not printed. 
