7 
9 
ft 
11. Plant sales realised $939*92, which, as in previous years, was paid in to 
revenue account. These sales represent upwards of four thousand plants, mostly in 
pots. Ornamental plants are most in demand, but fruit trees and trees for shade 
form a fair proportion. These plants are sold at low rates, as it is desirable to encour- 
age their cultivation, but the result is that the more plants are sold the less money and 
labour there is available for the general up-keep of the garden, for pots cost money, 
and plants cannot be propagated without labour. 
12. A large number of interesting and valuable plants hastbeen added during 
the year, the greater proportion having been selected by the Assistant Superintendent 
from Botanic Gardens and nurseries while on leave in England, and brought out by 
him on his return. This selection, which filled eighteen cases and measured over ten 
tons, was attended to and watered, when necessary, during the voyage, and there is 
no doubt that this is the surest way of introducing certain plants that travel badly. 
13. The thanks of this department are specially due to the Director, Royal 
Gardens, Kew ; to Messrs. F. Sander & Co., St. Albans ; Messrs. Jas. Veitch & 
Sons, Chelsea; and Messrs. Hugh Low & Co., Clapton, for the greater portion of 
this fine collection. 
14. A short trip to the Kinta District of Perak was made during the last ten 
days of the year fo^the purpose of collecting living plants and botanical specimens 
for the herbarium, with satisfactory results. On my return, I submitted a short report 
on the journey, a copy of which I annex to this report (Appendix B). 
15. More room for the accommodation of the herbarium specimens is much 
needed ; for, although the collection is mainly Penang plants, and altogether Malayan, 
the present Office is much too small for the herbarium as well as Office work. 
16. The total expenditure for maintenance of this garden is $4,484.43 as shown 
in statement annexed (Appendix A ), but if from this is deducted the amount of 
revenue collected amounting to $973.32, the actual cost is only $3,511.11. 
Government Hill Gardens. 
17. Nothing new of importance has been done in these gardens, the amount of 
money available for labour being barely sufficient to keep the grounds of Government 
Bungalow in order and maintain a supply of flowers and vegetables. 
18. The grounds of Belle Vue Bungalow badly require attention, but with the 
present labour staff it is impossible to do this work justice. 
19. The Experimental Nursery has been kept clean, and many of the fruit trees 
look well, though in want of manure. If ever the long-talked of tramway to the top 
of the hill becomes an accomplished fact, none will derive more benefit than those 
engaged in gardening pursuits.' At present the cost of carrying up any considerable 
quantity of. manure is prohibitive. 
• Preservation of Coco-nut Trees. 
20. The Inspector with the assistance of one Notice Server and one Climber, 
has been employed alternate months in Penang and Province Wellesley. 
21. One thousand four hundred and twenty-five (1,425) notices have been 
served on persons having on their premises trees, stumps, or rubbish, suitable breed- 
ing places for the beetle ; and as the result, 3,608 dead trees, 3,856 stumps, and 209 
heaps of rubbish have been destroyed. 
22. Seventy-nine (79) persons were prosecuted for non-compliance with the 
notices served on them, and fines inflicted amounting to $170. 
C. CURTIS, 
Assistant Superintendent of Forests, 
Penang , s8ih January , 1896. 
