n 
6g. The piggery in connection with the vegetable garden has been abolished, 
partly because complaints were made by occupants of Government Bungalow of an 
unpleasant smell, but principally for the reason that a fair trial has shown it to be 
cheaper, all things considered, to carry up the manure required. ... 
70. The sum received for sale of pigs is $102, which has beeji Spent in the 
purchase and transport of manure. / * \ . 
71. The total expenditure for maintenance of bungalow, garden 
mental nursery is $2,492.40, as shown in statement annexed. 
•e^peri- 
Forest Reserves. 
lr>59 
/. 
' 
72. Pulau Jerejak, having an estimated area of 1,000 acres, has been declared 
Forest Reserve and placed under this Department, thus bringing the total area under 
protection in Penang to 11,226 acres. « 
With the exception of the inmates and staff of the Leper Asylum, Pulau Jerejak 
contains but few inhabitants, and no cultivation whatever, . unless the few coco-nut 
trees overgrown with weeds and bushes in the neighbourhood of the Malay fishing 
village can be termed such. 
73. The whole area is fairly covered with young trees, which if properly pro- 
tected will grow r into a valuable crop. The most important, kinds are Tampines, 
(Sloetia sideroxylon), Damarlaut, Meranti (Shorea sp.), Bintangor (Calophyllum sp.). 
These are present in sufficient numbers to re-stock the island without the aid of 
artificial planting. 
Eucalyptus planted in this island, in the neighbourhood of the Asylum, at the 
request of the Medical Department two years ago, have made fair progress, and 
the Colonial Surgeon is of opinion that these trees have had a beneficial effect as 
regards malaria. ' 
Prosecutions . 
74. Fifty-five persons have been prosecuted during the year, principally for 
illicit timber cutting, as against twenty-four cases in 1888. The amount of fines 
inflicted being $395, as against $105 in 1 888. 
The greater number of prosecutions and convictions prove, I think, that the work 
of protecting the reserved areas, which, as pointed out in previous reports, is an 
important matter in Penang, has been better performed than in previous years. 
Stations. 
75- One new guard station has been added, and another re-constructed on 
a more convenient site than that hitherto occupied. 
76. The boundaries and inspection paths of the reserves have been regularly 
patrolled, and kept as clear of obstructions as the staff and nature of the country 
admitted. 
77. A small plantation of the large-leaved Mahogany (Swietenia macrophylla) 
raised from seeds ripened in Calcutta, has been made at Kubang Ulu, but the success' 
of Mahogany as a timber tree in this Settlement is doubtful. 
Fire. 
78. During the dry season, a fire occurred at this place, and damaged young 
trees to the extent of $25. Owing to the adjoining areas being waste land, largely 
covered with lalang grass, fires are frequent, and in no single instance has the origina- 
tor been discovered. 
, Nursery . 
79. The nursery has been maintained, but no new work of importance under- 
taken, as it was hoped more suitable land and easier of access would have been obtained, 
as suggested in last year’s report. 
After careful inquiry, it appears certain that there is no suitable Crown land 
available for this purpose, and that if experiments in the cultivation of vegetable 
products are to be conducted in a practical manner, the necessary land must be 
acquired by purchase. 
