i9 
8g. * At the request of the Hon’ble the Resident Councillor, Kedah has been 
twice visited ; the first occasion being to take over the land presented by H. H. the 
Sultan of Kedah as a building site for the British Consulate, and the second in con- 
nection with the clearing and preparing it with a view to ornamentation as soon as 
the building is completed. 
On the first occasion, having a day to spare, a visit was made to the caves, and 
some plants obtained, but the neighbourhood of Alor Star, the capital of Kedah, is an 
uninviting field for botanical research. 
At the request of the Acting District Officer, aWshort visit was paid to Lumut, 
the new Settlement in the Dindings, in November, to advise on the spot on matters 
connected with Forestry and Agriculture. 
Immediately on my return to Penang, two hundred and fifty large plants of Nut- 
megs and Cloves were shipped to the District Officer for planting at the new Settle- 
ment, and the latest account of this consignment is very encouraging. 
The soil at the new Settlement appears to be well suited for the cultivation of 
spices, and no pains should be spared to make the present plantation a success. 
90. Other matters recommended, especially the formation of a small nursery on 
cleared land at the back of the District Officer’s Quarters, for raising plants for dis- 
tribution could not, for want of a sufficiency of labour, be accomplished within the 
year, but will, I hope, be taken in hand as soon as possible. 
91. Clearing, fencing, and preparations for laying out the grounds in connec- 
tion with the new Residency, Penang, have been proceeded with, and a belt of quick- 
growing trees planted to screen off the native houses adjoining this land. The 
formation of beds, planting ornamental trees, &c., will come into another year’s work. 
92. Supervision of the Municipal Garden, and the planting of shade trees 
within Municipal limits, has been undertaken from the first of January, 1889, at the 
request of the Commissioners, and by permission of His Excellency the Governor. 
93. The total expenditure for the year, including Salaries of Establishment and 
Allowances of all kinds, amount to $13,454.22; and the amount received for sale 
of plants, &e., to $94.7°) which has been paid in to Revenue account.” 
