3 
Coolies . 
There was a good deal of sickness among the coolies in the early part of 
the vear chiefly from influenza and its sequelae, and from the constant wet 
weather ' In July, the Javanese, who had for some time betrayed an insolent and 
quarrelsome demeanour, became riotous and refused to work They were immediate- 
ly expelled the Gardens, and a month’s wages due to them forfeited. In a few days 
several returned and implored to be taken on again, which, however, was refused 
The experiment was them tried of using entirely Kling labour, but it was found 
that on the whole they were not so satisfactory. The better class were very well 
suited for weeding and trimming the beds and very speedily learnt the use of the 
scvthe but with a very few exceptions, were almost useless at potting plants, and 
the more delicate plant work. Added to which the difficulty of finding any wffio 
could speak or understand Malay properly, made it difficult to communicate with 
them Eventually Javanese were taken on again and are working more satisfactorily. 
From the large number of applicants of all races for employment in the Gardens 
immediately it was was known that the Javanese had left, it is clear that there is no 
difficulty in procuring any number of coolies more or less capable of undertaking 
gardening work at a very short notice. 
Buildings . 
The only additional building of any importance erected this year was a house 
for the Artist, Mr. De AlwiS, which was put upon the hill in the Military reserve 
adjoining that of the Forest Overseer. . 
A small glass frame was built on the site of the old house belonging formerly 
to the Forest Overseer, which was pulled down. It has proved very useful in 
germinating seeds and establishing delicate plants, and it is intended to build 
some more similar ones. 
Aviaries. 
The following animals and birds were presented or purchased at the Gardens 
this year : — 
One Orang Utan {Simla satyr us) presented by Lieut. KELSALL, R.A. 
One Wawa {Hylobates agilis) presented by Mr. W. Davison. 
One Black Monkey ( Semnopithecus niger) purchased. 
One Silver Monkey ( S. Phayrei ) purchased. 
One Common Monkey {Macacus sinensis) presented. 
Tw'o Marbled Cats ( Fells marmoratus). 
One Binturong ( Artictis binturong) presented by Mr. W. DUNMAN. 
One Sambur Deer (Rusa equina) presented by Mr. G. E. STEELE. 
One Kedjang (< dCervulus sp.) presented by Mr. W. Hutton. 
Three Mouse Deer ( Tragulus kanchil) purchased. 
One Large Mouse Deer ( T\ napu ) purchased. 
One Porcupine {Hystrix longicauda) presented by Professor VAUGHAN 
Stevens, 
Two Raffles’ Squirrels ( Sciurus Raffiesii) purchased. 
Two Common Squirrels {Sc. hippurus) caught. 
One Little Squirrel (5c. tenuis ) caught. 
One Galago ( Galeopithecus volans ) caught. 
Two Musangs ( Viverra malaccensis) one caught, one purchased. 
Two Slow Loris {Loris tardigrada) purchased. * 
One Honey Bear { Helarctos malayanus) presented by His Excellency Sir 
Cecil C. Smith, k.c.m.g. 
One Honey Bear (Bornean variety) presented by Mr. W. NANSON. 
One Manis and young ( Manis javanica ) purchased. 
Birds . 
One Eagle, {Aquila sp. ^presented by Mr. J. E. Clarke. 
One Javanese Jungle Cock {Gallus varius) purchased. 
Tw'o Small Green Parrots ( Loricula sp. ) purchased. 
Two Nicobar Pigeons (Caloenas nicobarica) presented. 
Two Wood Partridges {Rhizotheres longirostris) presented by Dr. MUG- 
liston. 
Reptiles. 
One Python curtus , presented by Mr. W. Davison. 
Two Python reticulatus , presented by Mr. S. DOWN, and Mr. CAULFIELD. 
Two Green Vipers, ( T rimer esurus Wagleri) caught. 
