Reports on the Forest Reserves in the Settlement of 
Penang, for the year 1898. 
North-East District, Penang. 
STATEMENT OF AREAS. 
a. 
r. 
P • 
D. 
Government Hill, 
»> 
Lot 34' 
m J 34 
Mukim 
*s\ 
17J 
- 5,185 
0 
32 
E. 
Highlands, 
W 1 
' J) 
16 
252 
2 
3^> 
F. 
Penara Bukit, 
,, 3 2 
ff 
14 
233 
2 
3 1 
I. 
Part of Relau Hills, 
6o‘ and 6o" 
}) 
13 
18 
3 
32 
[Relau Reserve was proclaimed by Government Notification No. 249 of 1899.] 
1. Two Forest Guards, and two coolies have been employed throughout the year 
in clearing the boundaries and looking out for illicit timber cutting and encroachments. 
2. The boundary of. the whole of the Penara Bukit block was re-opened early in 
the year. This was, in parts, a work of considerable difficulty, as some pieces of 
the line had totally disappeared. 
3. The boundary from Penara Bukit down to Batu Feringgi has also been 
re-opened. This line had also disappeared in parts, and had to be re-opened by a 
Surveyor. Much of this work was very slow and laborious, the boundary being often 
lost in a dense growth of fern which it was no easy matter to remove. I am told that 
the boundary which runs up the valley under the Western Hill, below the coffee 
plantation, had never been cleared since it was originally laid. 
4. The boundary from Batu Feringgi to Tanjong Bunga is not yet altogether 
cleared, but wall be finished during the month. From Tanjong Bunga to the Hill 
Road, below the Half-Way House, the line required ^ery little clearing. From the 
Half-Way House to Penara Bukit, the boundary has been cleared when necessary 
during the year, and is now completely op*en. 
5. The boundary of the highlands reserve required no clearing. 
6. During some months of the year very little work could be done, owing t >* 4 
bad weather, and to the coolies suffering from fever. The men were also r, h 
hampered by the distance of their quarters at Penara Bukit from their work ; but 1 
have now obtained permission to build a hut near Batu Feringgi where the men can 
in future sleep while working in the neighbourhood. Another small house should be 
bulit near the road below the Half-Way House for the same purpose. There used to 
be a Forest Guard's house near the coolie-lines at the Half-Way House, but the 
proximity of the coolies rendered the place uninhabitable, and it has long been 
abandoned. 
7. There were 15 cases, mostly trifling, of. wood-cutting in the Reserves, in 13. 
of which the offenders were convicted and fined. There were no encroachments. 
