3 
Excellency the Governor of British New Guinea, and seven cases of various economic 
plants to the Congo Free State. A Collection of 69 packages of Carpological specimens 
was sent to Messrs. Herb & WULLE in exchange for living seeds of cultural plants. 
Artist. 
The Artist Choudhury was employed in making drawings of interesting plants 
till July when he was attacked by brain disease and became insane, He was sent to 
the Asylum and eventually returned to Calcutta, Charles d Alwis was trans- 
ferred from the Public Works Department where he had been employed as photographer 
and commenced work here on November 1st, 
Vote ... ... - $ 700.00 
Expenditure. 
Salary of Artist ... • $ 450.00 
Purchase of Colours, Brushes, Pencils, Rubbers, &c. $ 33-35 
Balance .. $ 216.65 
$ 700.00 
Herbarium. 
A small number oi plants were collected in Malacca and Province Welles- 
* ley during my visit in the spring, and an extensive series were obtained during 
an expedition to Batu Pahat, and also at Panchur on the Johore River. Thirty-three 
specimens were received from Mr. Curtis from Penang, and a very interesting 
collection of 122 specimens was presented by Mr. VV. D. BARNES, from Kluang 
Terbang in Pahang at an altitude of 5,000 feet. Forty-four specimens from the 
collections of Scortechini were received from Calcutta. Two hundred and seventy- 
nine Australian and Polynesian ferns and other plants were received in exchange from 
the Botanic Gardens, Sydney. 
Twenty-six specimens of Dichopsis, and Verbenaceae were received from the 
Botanic Gardens, Buitenzorg. 
The following were distributed to various establisments : — 878 specimens to the 
Royal Gardens, Calcutta, 143 plants and 24 specimens of woods to Kew, 65 specimens 
and 82 samples of woods to the British Museum, 227 specimens to the Botanic 
Gardens, Sydney, 12 specimens of sea-weeds to Mr. E. Holmes for identification, 
24 specimens of Dipterocarpeae to Dr. Helm of Paris. Twelve pounds of bark 
of Roucheria Griffithiana stated to be poisonous were sent to Dr. Greshoff for 
analysis. 
A number of local wood specimens were added to the collection, including a 
specimen of Chandan presented by Mr. W. D. Barnes and specimens of Perak and 
other woods obtained by Mr. H. C. Hill, and a specimen of fossil wood presented by 
Mr. Walsh. 
Library. 
The following books were added during the year : — 
Greshoff Dr. — Indische Vergift rapporten. Presented by Author. 
„ Nuttige Indische Planten. 
Smith, E. F. — Wilt disease of Cotton, Water-melon and Cowpea. Presented by 
[Author. 
Carleton, M. A. — Cereal rusts of the United States. 
Hables, W. H. — A contribution to the Mineralogy of Wisconsin. 
Comstock, G. C. — Studies in Spherical and Practical Astronomy. 
Weidman, S. — On Quartz and Keratiphyre and Associated rocks. 
Schlundt, H. — On the speed of the liberation of Iodine. 
Barnes, C. R. — Analytic key to the Genera and species of North American Mosses. 
Vernhout, Dr. J. H. — Onderzoek over Bacteriea by de Fermentation der Tabak. 
Maiden, J. H. — A second contribution towards a flora of Mt. Koscinsko. 
,, Some exotic grasses. 
„ Native Food plants. 
„ The Noogoora-burr. 
„ A new variety of Dendrobium undulatum, Useful Australian 
plants, (eight tracts). 
Lotsy, Dr. J. P, — Physiologische Proevengenom met Cinchona. 
Schiffner, Dr. V. — Die Hepaticce von Buitenzorg. 
Knapp, S. A.— The present state of Rice-culture in the United States. 
IV 
