the carriage road at the base made up and metalled, 
21. The dense jungle in the ravine adjoining the plant nursery and extendin 
parallel with the road to the garden bungalow has been thinned out and planted with 
variety of plants suited to the various exposures, whereby the appearance of this por- 
tion of the grounds has been greatly improved. 1 regret to say that wild pigs did 
much damage not only here but in other parts of' the garden, especially to aroids. 
• 
22. Clumps of palms and other ornamental trees have been planted in various 
portions of the garden, most of which had ‘been grown to a moderate size in pots, 
but the soil is such that I fear there is little probability of this garden ever possessing 
such magnificent specimens as are to be found in some other botanical gardens and 1 
have, therefore, aimed rather at devoloping it in another direction. A group of tree # 
ferns collected in Perak and Selangor have been planted in partial shade by the stream 
near upper bridge and are doing well. These are the only two species I have 
observed growing in full sun at or near sea-level. 
23. . Several plants of great interest flowered in the grounds and plant sheds 
during the year, the South American orchids such as Cattleya, Anguloa, Peristeria , 
&c., specially attracting the attention of local orchid growers whose acquaintance 
with the order is principally confined to kinds obtainable in the Malayan Islands and 
the Peninsula. The interesting Calanthei rom Langkawi recently described by Mr. 
Ridley, under the name of C. rubens flowered abundantly, as did also a new Impa- 
tient from the same Island, but the latter has only one or two flowers open at a 
time. Plants were sent to Kew where it has recently flowered and been figured for 
the Botanical Magazine. 
24. Although there has been during the whole year a number of more or less 
interesting plants to attract the attention of visitors, the finest show was Calanthe 
vestita and Limatodes rosea , of which about two hundred were in bloom at one time. 
Beautiful flowers are so much more difficult to obtain in this climate than fine foliage, 
and so many inquiries have been made as to the cultivation of this orchid that it may 
not be amiss to mention the system adopted. The most important point to be 
observed is to give the plants a long rest after flowering. From the time the flowers 
are fully open until the plant show signs of commencing to grow again, a period of 
about three months, not a drop of water is necessary. As soon as the growths are 
from half to three-quarters of an inch long they should be shaken out of the old soil 
and repotted in a mixture of leaf-mould, broke'n bricks, chopped moss and cow 
manure, and water applied sparingly until the pseudo bulb begins to swell, when 
more liberal watering, and even manure water is beneficial. 
25. The labelling of plants in pots with indestructible zinc labels, a work much * 
needed but one that had to be postponed from time to time on account of more press- 
ing matters, has at length been commenced and will, I hope, be pushed on during the 
current year. 
26. Two performances by the Austro-Hungarian band were given on moon- 
light nights in the beginning of the year when the grounds were illuminated with Chinese 
lanterns, the cost of which as well as the band was provided by subscription. 
27. Arrangements were made for the reception of His Royal Highness the Duke 
of CONNAUGHT by erecting triumphal arches at the entrance to the garden, &c., but 
unfortunately His Royal Highness did not arrive in Penang until evening and pro- 
ceeded to Singapore the same night. 
28. I regret to say that theft of plants has been by no means uncommon and 
although three persons were arrested and punished for removing plants of no great 
value, in the more important cases no arrests were made. 
29. The revenue from sale of plants increased from $75 in 1889 to $220.08 
in 1890, and there is every probability of this sum being exceeded during the current 
year. 
30. The total expenditure in connection with this garden, including new works 
and improvements, the more important only of which have been referred to, amounts 
to $5,494.51 as shown in the statement of expenditure annexed. 
