4 
The donors were Mr. T. B. Blow (Japanese Seeds) ; Mr. J. C. HARVEY (Mexico) j 
Messrs. SANDER & Co. ; Royal Gardens, Kew ; Botanic Gardens, Ceylon ; Messrs. 
D AMMAN & Co.; Mr. Robertson (Australia); Deputy Conservator of Forests, T haiping; 
Mr. A. D. Machado; Messrs. VEITCH ; Mr. hGERTON ; Mr. Erickson (Denmark ) ; 
Mr. Micholitz; Lady Croft; Messrs. Herb (Naples) ; Mr. Choa Kim Keat; Mr. 
St. V. B. Down (Siamese plants) ; Right Reverend Bishop HOSE ; Mr. A. B. Lake 
(Selangor); Mr. G. T. GebeL (Javanese Orchids)-; Mr. VAN USLAR (Borneo Orchids); 
Hon. i. G. Penney; Herr GlRSCHNER (Governor of the Caroline Islands); and the 
Botanical Gardens of Porto Rico, Port Darwin, Mauritius, Seychelles, Calcutta, 
Jamaica, British Guiana, Uganda, Udaipur, Montserrat, Trinidad, Philippines, Natal, 
Penang, Rangoon, Sydney, Harvard University, Madagascar, Melbourne, Saharanpur, 
Alipur, and the Department of Agriculture in India (three varieties of cotton seeds)* 
A number of plants and seeds were also added from the expeditions of the 
Director to Christmas Island and various parts of the Peninsula. 
Seeds and Plants Distributed. 
V • 
Exclusive of seeds and plants of Para rubber, there were 493 plants and 79 
packets of seeds distributed to various private people and gardens in exchange. 
The recipients were Mr. J. D’A. PEREIRA, Mr. A. M. BURN-MURDOCH, Mr. J. 
Veitch, Messrs. Sander & Co., Mr. A. D. Machado, Mr. Erichsqn, Mr. St. V. B. 
Down, Mr. Lucas (Jamaica), Right Reverend Bishop HOSE, and the Botanical 
Gardens and Institutions of Manila, Kew, Hongkong, Penang, Saigon, Selangor, and 
Buitenzorg. 
Herbarium. 
Part of ihe Herbarium was moved to the new building, so as to leave more space 
in the old office for the Library which was much overcrowded, and six more new 
cabinets were made. 
The following specimens were added : — 
Rt. Rev. Bishop Hose — Bornean grasses and sedges. 
Dr. Gimlette — Plants from Kuala Lebir, Kelantan. 
Dr. E. Merrill — Scitamineae of the Philippine Islands. 
Royal Gardens, Calcutta — 29 specimens of Pandanus, and a number of Rubia- 
ceae, etc., from the Malay Peninsula, collected by Wray, KUNSTLER and 
SCORTECHINI. 
Royal Gardens, Kew — 37 orchids and balsams, from India. 
Mr. A. M. Burn-MuRDOCH — Specimens of timber trees chiefly Dipterocarpeae 
from Selangor. 
A large series of plants was also collected by myself in the Semangko Pass and 
at Rantau Panjang in August, and also in Perak and elsewhere in February, and a good 
series of plants was also collected in Christmas Island during a Government expedi- 
tion in October. 
At the end of December, I went on leave to Gunong Pulai, in Johore, and collected 
a good number of plants in the week spent there. 
In the small part of the new building destined for a Museum, a number of speci- 
mens were cleaned, sorted and arranged, and as many new cases as could be afforded 
were obtained. The COLLINS collection of resins, gums, fruit seeds, etc., was arranged 
in glass-topped boxes. A large series of rattans, resins, Dragon’s blood and other 
specimens of economic importance were obtained at the Agricultural Exhibition held in 
Kuala Lumpur. Timber specimens were sent by Mr. HUDSON and Mr. MOORHOUSE 
from Seremban, and specimens of the timbers of Christmas Island were also added 
to the collection. A fine series of Gutta perchas was presented to Museum by Mr. 
POBLOTH, and a fine series of fibres prepared by Mr. C. J. SCHIRMER, chiefly from 
plants grown in the Botanic Gardens and decorticated by his new machine. 
Duplicate Herbarium specimens were sent to Kew (5 3^), Berlin (314), Manila 
(241), and the British Museum (153)* 
A series of large timber specimens partly obtained by Mr. BURN-MURDOCH 
and partly obtained in Singapore were forwarded to the Imperial Institute. 
Specimens of the Ngai camphor with a large quantity of the dried leaves for 
analysis were srnt to the Botanic Gardens, Buitenzorg. and a quantity of bat-guano 
from Perak was Srnt to the Imperial Institute for investigation. 
