7 
Expenditure. 
Expended on Procuring Gutta-Percha Plants ... $2,307 40 
Coolies Wages ... ... ... 679 57 
House Rent for Mandor and Cartage on Plants ... 1 7 00 
Tools ... ... ... 26 20 
Balance ... ... ... ... 1,569 83 
$4,600 00 
Government House Grounds and Domain. 
28. A new Mandor, Tajurdin, was appointed on the first of June, after receiv- 
ing several months training in the Botanic Gardens. He relieved Mohamed Han IF 
who returned to his own post as Mandor of the Botanic Gardens. The new Mandor 
has worked well and the coolies satisfactorily, and the grounds have been kept in 
good order. The plant sheds have been repaired where necessary and the staging 
renewed. 
Vote ... ... $2,360.00 
Expenditure. 
Salary of Mandor and Coolies 
Tools and Stores 
Repairs to Plant Shed 
Balance 
$2,030.61 
I94-65 
123.70 
1 1.04 
$2,360.00 
Visit of Their Royal Highnesses The Duke and Duchess of Cornwall and York. 
In April Singapore was honoured by a visit of Their Royal Highnesses The 
Duke and Duchess of York, who arrived on the morning of 21st of April and left 
oil the evening of the 23rd. During their stay the weather was intensely hot, and the 
many plants used in the decorations suffered a great deal, notwithstanding our efforts 
to keep them watered. In all some thousands of plants were used and some tons of 
greenery, chiefly (Ribu-Ribu) “ Lygodium scandens," and (Rumput-halus; “ Lycopo- 
dium cernuum.” H. R. H. The Duchess was graciously pleased to accept for the 
Royal Yacht a small collection of 36 plants. 
W. FOX, 
Acting Director of Gardens , Singapore. 
Botanic Gardens, Penang. 
The only change in the staff of this Department was the appointment of Sergeant 
Wells to take charge of the grounds of the Governor’s Hill Bungalow in succession 
to Mr. O. Keeffe, who was appointed Light-Keeper at Muka Head. Sergeant 
Wells assumed charge on bis return from leave in May. 
Waterfall Garden. 
- 2. 1 he maintenance of the Waterfall Botanic Garden in an efficient and attrac- 
tive condition occupies the greater portion of the time of the officer in charge in this 
Settlement, but although the Forests are now, and have been for some years, under the 
supervision of the Collector of Land Revenue and District Officers, a good deal of the 
work in connection therewith devolves on the Assistant Superintendent of Gardens 
also. This has been specially the case during the past year in connection with 
starting plantations of gutta percha trees in Penang and Malacca, and necessitated 
my absence from Penang for a period of about six weeks, besides the time occupied 
in the Island in connection with the same subject. 
3. So far as funds admit efficiency has been maintained, and some improvement 
effected, but the purchasing power of the dollar, both as regards labour and material 
has so greatly diminished since the time when the annual amount of the Government 
Grant was fixed at $4,500, that efforts in the latter direction are limited, and it be- 
came absolutely necessary to ask for an increase in 1902, which 1 am pleased to find 
lias been granted. 
4. '1 here being no Museum or other object of special interest in the town, the 
one place in Penang to which passing visitors resort is the Waterfall Garden. The 
majority remain here only for a few hours and have not time to go up the hill, which 
is about the only other point of interest, and it is therefore desirable that this garden 
should be made attractive as well as useful. 
