g. This land would have to be cleared and fenced to keep out wild animals and, 
a small house ^put up to accommodate two gardeners, who would be sufficient to carry 
on the work when it is fairly started. 
10. The cost. of clearing, fencing and stocking this nursery, including young 
plants of cloves, nutmegs and pepper to be purchased this year, need not exceed $500, 
and the after upkeep would be the salaries of tw : o Javanese at about $18 per mensem. 
I discussed the matter thoroughly w ith Mr. Merewether, who takes an intense 
interest in the matter, and one of the first things done would be to raise a quantity of 
dadap and pepper plants for distribution, a supply of seeds of the former being 
available on the spot. 
11. There is regular communication between Penang and Pangkor, and seeds 
are easily transmitted, and an officer of this Department could occasionally run down 
for a day or two to give practical instruction. 
At present there is no accommodation for visitors to the distinct, which doubtless 
prevents many persons, who would otherwise do so, from spending a day or two on the 
Island, and judging for themselves of the capability of the soil, &c, I understand, 
however, from' the District Officer, that it is intended to erect a Rest House on the 
beach, wffiich ^ill b.e a great convenience. 
12. .It should be borne in mind that, while there is great need fc^r developing the 
agricultural capabilities of the Dindings, the Government possess in the existing forests 
a most valuable crop, wffiich in some parts of the district, considering the nature of the 
soil, quality»of the timber and the facility with which it can brought to market, is, if 
carefully conserved and economically worked, probably of greater value than any- 
thing that can be planted, besides the advantages of having a fair proportion of forest 
land as regards its bearing on climatic changes. 
13. These areas should be settled in good time, and their extent and position 
showm in the map w r hen the contemplated survey of the district is undertaken. 
I have, &c., 
C. CURTIS, 
Assistant Superintendent of Forests. ■ 
