2 
Upkeep. 
7. The borders and beds in the garden were all gone over, thoroughly trenched 
and renewed, and planted with fresh shrubs and plants. The flowerbeds round the 
band stand have been exceptionally bright this year owing to the introduction of a 
large number of novelties received chiefly from Mr. DAMMANN of Naples, who sent a 
very large collection of various seeds, in exchange for those of palms ; among these 
new-bedding plants, were several kinds of Salvia of different colors, Solanums, Ri- 
vihas, the sweet scented Basils (ocimum), Nicotianas, Cacalia, and a good series of the 
Orchid flowered Cannas. Among the more interesting new introductions were, the 
following, Lepinia taitensis, (Southsea islands) Ceropegia perforatum (New Gui- 
nea) Lonchocarpus cyaneus , two new species of Coffee from Africa, Tupistra new- 
species, Typhonium new species from Perak. Cinnamomum sp, a wild clove bark from 
Ulu Lipis, Begonia decora, Didymocarpus n. sp. and Renanthera angustifolia (Perak), 
and a fine series of araucarias was received from Brisbane. 
8. The following plants flowered for the first time, Baphia nitida, the camwood. 
Carapa Guianensis , (craboil tree) Commelina Sellowiana, Streptocarpus hybrids, Caca- 
lia coccinea , C.aurea, Mucuna pruriens varutilis Sarcochilus bisserratui n.sp. (Perak) 
Bromheadia schoenoides n. sp. AmomutH micranthum, Hornstedtia Maingayi. Phry- 
nium n. sp. Neyrandia Madagascariensis, Heptapleurum Hullettii, and H. Ridleyi 
Dendrobium anceps (Burmah) Buttneria sp. (Pahang), Garcinia Morelia (Ceylon.) 
Nepenthes House. 
9. A new glass-roofed house was built chiefly for pitcher plants, (Nepenthes) 
but it has also been used with great success for newly imported orchids and other 
delicate plants. Among the nepenthes are, N. ampullacea, N. Rafflesiana and several 
varieties, N. gracilis N. Reinwardtii , N. sanguined and N. albomarginata. 
The large plant-house has undergone large and expensive alterations. .The whole 
of the central portion has been removed, the wood work being completely rotten. 
The walls are covered with bertam-chicks^ made specially in Penang, supported on 
an arched-iron frame work carried on iron tubing pillars, and the central staging was 
covered with a circular roof of chicks carried on iron tubing and bars, from a brick 
pillar in the centre. 
10. The following were the Exchanges of plants during the year, two hundred 
and thirty nine plants, and one hundred and ninety five packets were sent out to 
kindred institutions and Botanic Gardens and eight hundred and twenty four plants 
and four hundred and fourteen packets of seeds were received. 
The following contributed to the Gardens : — 
Mr. Micholitz. 
„ Pereira. 
„ W. Nanson. 
„ St. V. B. Down. 
,, J. Goodenough. 
A. Loher. 
„ Lease. 
,, W. W. Bailey. 
„ E. V. Carey. 
„ Williams. 
,, Owen. 
,, Gerald Watson. 
Messers Dammann & Co., Italy. 
,, Behn Meyer & Co. 
,, Sander & Co. 
Mrs. Pennefather. 
Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew. 
Do., 
Calcutta. 
Do., 
Ceylon. 
Do., 
Buitenzorg. 
Do., 
Hongkong. 
Do., 
Sydney. 
Do., 
Trinidad. 
Do., * 
British Guiana. 
Do., 
Brisbane. 
Do., „ 
Tokio, Japan. 
Do., 
Lagos. 
Herbarium. 
11. During the year no departmental botanical excursions could be made, but 
while on leave in July I visited the Kinta valley in Perak, ascending the hills of 
Bujong Malacca, and Gunong Keledang, and taking the plant collector, made large 
collections in the district. Although several botanists have visited this valley, a 
considerable number of novelties of interest were found, including a remarkable new 
species of Tupistra, the first of this Indo-Chinese genus discovered In the peninsula 
and a very fine Bulbophyllum with probably the largest flowers in the genus, a new 
