2 
The road from Garden Road to the officers’ quarters was remetalled with three inches of 
aterite, gravelled and consolidated for 200 yards and 15 ft. in width, and re-gravelled for 
97 yards. 
The main drive from the office to the band-stand, which is steep and had scoured, was 
patched to a considerable extent. 
The Garden road of a length of nearly five hundred yards, running from Tyersall 
Road to Dalvey Road, was remetalled by the Public Works Department. 
Drains and Culverts. 
5. — A mason and coolie were employed neaily the whole year in patching and renewing 
urgently needed work. Two small drains with cemented catchpits were made across the 
road between the plant houses and godown. The side drains from terrace steps towards 
the old aviary /or 75 yards length and 6-7 inches wide were reneAved. 
The side drains along the four-foot path from the main entrance to the old aviary 
Avere patched and repaired. The side drain from the main entrance along the drive for 295 
yards was renewed. The large culvert near the officers’ quarters was lengthened and 
a new catchpit made. The cement paths in the plant-house and sheds, were repaired and as 
much of the old aviary demolished as time alloAved, the bricks being used for repairs. The 
unsightly culverts on the band-stand paths ha\'e been reneAved and lowered so as to admit 
of a regular even path, and at the same time the side drains on both sides of the path for 
40 yards on each side Avere renewed. The drain on one side of the main drive from the 
plant-house steps to the band- stand has been deepened and reneAved for a distance of 90 
yards. 
New or Noteworthy Plants. 
6. — Among the more interesting novelties which floAvered during the year were:— 
Malayan : — Didymocarpus perdita. — (Pul'au Battam). 
Vanda hastifera. — (Borneo). 
A eschynanthus tricolor. — (Borneo) . 
Aeschymnf hits Lobbiana var? — (Borneo). 
Habenavia xanthocheila. — (Penang). 
Gastrochilus pulchellus n. sp. — (Borneo). 
Globba brachyantheva. — (Borneo) . 
Clerodendron n. sp.— (Borneo). 
Begonia ohlongifolia . — (Borneo) . 
Begonia promethea. — -(Borneo). 
Pepevomia n. sp. — (Borneo). 
Hapaline appendiculata n. sp. — (Borneo). 
Schismato glottis brevipes. — (Perak). 
Medinilla spcciosa. — (Selangor). 
Tacca vcspevtilio n. sp.— ( Perak). 
'Pace a minor. — (Kelantan). 
Strophanthus Jackianus. — (Sumatra) . 
Ceratolobus leevigatus. — (Perak). 
Cypriped ium glancophyllum . — ( J ava) . 
Saccolabium sp. new.— (Perak). 
Siam : — Aneilema siniemn . 
Habenaria gmiculata. — (Shan States). 
Ruellia sp. 
China : — Lycoris radiata. 
Lieu ala pdtata. 
Christmas Island: — Abutilon Listen. 
A. auritum. 
Africa : — T inncca aethiopica , 
Cvinutn sp. Accra. 
Culcasia Manii. — (FloAvers and fruits). 
A maryllis Bellandonna. 
Sanseviera grandiettspis. 
