11. In no previous year has there been so much colour in the Garden, and 
this is in a great measure due to the liberal use of hybrid varieties of Indian shot 
(Canna indica ), obtained in Europe during my visit in 1891. These have been 
propagated extensively from the original thirteen varieties brought out, and several 
hybrids of merit have been raised here during the year. 
12. The lily pond has been deepened, and the Victoria regia continues in good 
condition. 
13. A few nutmeg and clove trees have been planted near the turning to the 
bungalow, where there were already durians, betel-nut and other interesting things 
for which the Island is famous, so that now visitors from steamers, who have often 
very little time to spare, will be able to see these trees in one place without loss of 
time. 
14. In the Chitty Temple nursery a collection of “Pisangs” ( Bananas ) have 
been planted and labelled distinctly with the local names, for the purpose of com- 
paring their relative merits, and of affording a supply of young plants to correspond- 
ents. 
15. Consequent on the 'Municipal Commissioners laying the main from the 
new Reservoir across one of the Garden roads, at a height of about three feet above 
the level, it became necessary to make a detour involving the cutting of about six 
hundred lineal feet of new carriage .road. This was brought to the notice of the 
Commissioners, and also the damage done to other parts of the Garden road by cart- 
ing over it all the material required for constructing the Reservoir. The Commis- 
sioners agreed to re-metal the road referred to and to supply the necessary labour 
for cutting the new portion, supervision to be undertaken by the Garden staff. 
When completed this will afford an easier means of access to the Reservoir and upper 
portion of the ground. 
16. No considerable addition has been made to the area of the Garden, but 
much lias been done towards developing the land already inclifded by planting 
additional groups of flowering trees, palms, &c. and by reducing to more effective 
proportions the clumps of jungle left standing when the first clearing was made. 
17. The plant sheds, of which there are four, exclusive of the shelter, near, the 
band-stand and those in the nursery, are a source of never failing interest to visitors 
and residents of Penang. These have been numbered for convenience of reference, 
and a notice board placed at the entrance gate indicating the route by which these 
sheds, waterfall, swimming bath, &c. can be most conveniently reached. 
18. No. 1 is an octagonal shed with a water tank, rockery and fountain in the 
centre, and is such as in an English nursery would be termed a show-house. Moder- 
ate sized palms in pots and tubs surround the water tank, and the side beds are 
filled with a great variety of ornamental foliage, flowering plants, ferns, &c. which 
are changed from time to time. Four new wings, each 16 x 20 feet, have been added, 
and more lightly shaded than the centre, and a pretty regular display of annuals 
and other flowering plants is kept up in these. 
19. No. 2 is situated just at the end of the lower bridge. It is a span-roofed 
shed 88 x 40 feet principally devoted to aroids, the whole of which are planted out 
among rockwork. The posts and roof have been entirely renewed during the past 
year and a re-arrangement of the plants made, those that had grown too big being 
removed to the shady ravine leading to the swimming bath. For effectiveness and 
economy in labour this system of planting among rockwork has much to recommend it. 
20. Shed No. 3 opposite the entrance to the plant nursery, erected about six 
months ago, is devoted to orchids and ferns in pots. It has a double span roof and 
covers an area of 42 x 58 feet. The covering is made of Bertam chicks and attaps, 
and the beds on which the plants are set is built of rough stones, the interstices 
planted with small ferns, mosses, &c. In Table C I have given a list of some of 
the interesting plants, from a decorative point of view, that flowered in the Garden 
during the year, many of which were placed in this shed during the time they were 
in flower. Angrecum sesquipedale , H abenaria carnea, Cattleyas, Calanthes and 
Dendrobiums were much admired. 
21. Shed No. 4 is situated in the upper portion of the grounds and the plants, 
consisting of local tree ferns, aroids, begonias, &c., are all planted out in the same 
manner as No. 2. 
