9 
Eighteen years ago the site oi the present beautiful Gardens was practical! v waste 
ground. It is now the pride of the Colony and the admiration of all who visit it. 
I took over charge of the Department on March the 24th as Acting Superin tendem, 
and was appointed to the substantive post on December 7th, the date of Mr, CURTIS'S 
retirement. 
2. The Weather. — The year has been remarkable for the unequal distribution 
ot the rainfall. Up to August the rainfall was far below life average, since then 
however the fall has been heavy, and prolonged more than usual The total fall 
of the year was on Government Hill 125*93 and on the plain 103*7(3 inches, 
3. The work of the year must I fear be considered not w hat it should have 
been as regards new work, owing to the uncertainty which still hangs over us, as 
regards the possible requirements of the Garden Valley as a site for a new water 
reservoir. On the other hand more time and attention has been given to the upkeep 
of the collections and the neat and tidy appearance of the Garden in detail work. 
As pointed out in last year’s Report this uncertainty has a paralysing effect. Several 
projected improvements are hung up in consequence and it will be a great relief 
when we know definitely one wav or the other what is going to happen. I have 
alreadj.' reported to Government my views on the matter in case the Garden site 
is required. 
4. The flower beds and shrubberies have been attended to andheavilv manured, 
and otherwise maintained in good order by replanting where necessary. With the 
view of having possibly to change our site, 1 have paid more than the usual atten- 
tion to propagation, so that our stock will be easily transferred in case we do move, 
many specimens being kept in tubs, which ordinarily would, have been planted out 
The large Iron Plant House — This has been thoroughly overhauled and replanted, 
g^ ^ ^ the many alpine plants such as Didymocarpi, Baeas 
etc., which Mr. CURTIS had collected to plant up the rockeries with them which suits 
them much better than being kept in pots. 
5. The Orchid Home — This is always an attraction to visitors and rarely is it 
that there are not in flower such things' as Cattlevas, Laelias or Oncid rums. The 
Calanthes have not done so well this year owing to the attack or a fungus which 
despite spraying did them a certain amount of harm and rendered them Je*ss florifer- 
ous than usual. The Habenarias were how 7 ever particularly good. 
t>. The usual potting of the other pot plants was done during the year and 
special attention was given to flowering plants of all sorts. 
7. The principal contributors and recipients of plants and seeds were practi- 
cally those of other years. Plants to the value of .^894 were sold during the year, 
the whole being plants ot a decorative character of which there is a steady demand 
not only in Penang, but in the Native States, Sumatra, etc. 
8 . Governor' s Hill Bungalcnv Gardens — 
These were kept up in as good order as possible with the means at command. 
I am glad to sav that the Government have slightly increased the Vote for next vear, 
which will enable them to be kept up as they should be. 
g. Herbarium and Library — 
No botanical tours were made during the year, owing partly to mv time being 
spent on Forest work and partly to the fact that the weather was too boisterous to 
visit the Langkawis at a time when it was convenient for me to do so. The following 
Natural Ordeis Gesneriace ev and A roidee have been sent to Singapore on loan for 
the use of the Director in connection with the preparation of a part of the “ Materials 
fora flora ol the Malayan Peninsula” lie is preparing. The usual work of mounting 
and intercalating of specimens has gone on as usual. I regret to say that owing to 
the resignation of the artist MOHD: HUSSAIN about the middle of the year fewer 
drawings have been made than usual. I am endeavouring to replace him by training 
another man this, however, necessarily takes a long time. 
10. Economic Plants . — The Para Rubber Tree which has so often been spoken 
of m previous Reports, was again tapped on 15 occasions and gave a daily return of 
from ih oz. to 17-j ounces. The total tappings for the vear amounted to 3 lbs. 6 oz. 
and the grand total to 22 lbs, 15 oz. 
11. Cotton. Perhaps no Agricultural Product has had so much attention criven 
to it all over the world during the year as Cotton. This is of course due to the 
shortage of crops in America which has had such disastrous effects on the Cotton 
industry of Lancashire. The subject so far as it affects this part of the world is dis- 
cussed in the Agricultural Bulletin at some length by the editor and Messrs. Baxendale 
and Arden, but unfortunately there are very few reliable data to go upon. The experi- 
