7 
One Pied-fruit Pigeon ( Carpophaga bicolor) presented by Capt. WOORTMAN. 
One Green Fruit Pigeon (C. oenea ) ,, >>' 
Two Brown Pigeons ( Macropygia assimtlis) >, >> 
Two Nicobar Pigeons (Caloenas nicobarica ) presented by Mr. W . JN ANSON. 
Six Mynahs ( Eulabes javensis ) purchased. 
Two Brown Boobies (Sula fiber ) presented by Capt, Madge. 
Three Bali Ducks (Anas hookas ) presented by Mr. F. Balfour Lees. 
Herbarium. 
ifi A considerable advance has been made in the herbarium during the past year. 
In the end of February, a Curator by name De Witt was engaged to take charge 
■of it, but proved unsatisfactory, and left after a few months, and TASSIM Daud was 
employed who still remains. He has been constantly at work, drying and mounting- 
specimens, and accompanied me to Selangor in July, and along the East Coast in 
August, to collect plants. . , 
Hitherto the plants have been roughly stuck to thm sheets oE paper, and no 
covers had been used to keep genera and species separate. I have obtained from 
England paper of the quality of that used in the British Museum, and thin white 
double sheets, to contain the separate species, and thicker brown double sheets to 
separate the crenera. The whole herbarium has been re-arranged and cleaned, the 
arrangement adopted being that of the Flora of British India. The vermin which 
were very abundant have been destroyed, and camphor and napthaline placed among 
the specimens. The duplicates have been taken out, and many sent to various 
institutions. , , , , . , , , • 
It will be well now to give a summary of the herbarium as it now stands, begin- 
ning with the earliest portion. of it.* Mr. J. COLLINS apparently did not collect any 
specimens in Singapore, but when in London selected from Ward’s herbarium then 
in the possession of the Linnean Society, a number of specimens he thought likely 
to prove useful. Among the more valuable of these are plants obtained at Penang, 
Malacca and Singapore, by WALLICH and his collectors, and GRIFFITH; in various . 
parts of India by" the same collectors, Wight, Campbell and the Moravian Missionaries 
(in the eighteenth century). Besides these, there are plants from almost all regions 
of the world, collected by ROXBURGH, CUNNINGHAM, Hooker, Schimper and many 
others. These specimens have been much neglected, and have much injured also by 
careless poisoning. All from the East Indies have been cleaned, repaired and remount- 
ed and put into the cabinets. Mr. Murton appears to have made good collections 
here and in Perak, but I can only find a very few specimens now. Mr. CanTley 
made and caused to be made very extensile collections in Perak, Singapore, Selan- 
gor and Malacca, but it is much to be regretted that very many of the specimens were 
inadequately labelled, the State merely being recorded, and that incorrectly in many 
instances. Thus South American plants evidently cultivated in the Botanic Gardens 
are labelled Singapore. Many plants described from his specimens in the Flora of 
British India I have been quite unable to find, as there is nothing to show which 
were the plants sent to Kew. A considerable number of plants also have no labels 
whatever, so as to be quite valueless. 
In a herbarium of a country like this, it is • essential to have specimens properly 
labelled from every district. I am, therefore, attempting to get specimens of every 
plant from each of the States, and the similarity of the flora induces me to add those 
of Sumatra, Borneo and the adjacent islands. During the past year many additions 
have been made to the Herbarium, of which none is more valuable than that of the 
whole of his fine local herbarium presented by Mr. HuLLETT. It contains a large 
series of good specimens from Singapore, Mount Ophir and Borneo, many of which 
are types of recently described species. _ _ Tir 
Dr. King has sent a large series of plants chiefly collected by Mr. WRAY at 
Perak ; Mr. CURTIS has sent many plants obtained in Penang, Langkawi and Kedah. 
Mr. DERRY, some from Malacca. In July I visited Malacca, Selangor and Penang, 
and obtained a very large number of specimens, especially from Selangor. A large series 
of plants have been collected in Singapore, both by myself and by the Forest Watchmen 
and Overseer, during forest work. Still many remain to be collected, even in the island 
In August I accompanied His Excellency in a visit in the Sea Belle to the East Coast of 
the peninsula which has never before been visited by any botanist. The vessel 
touched at Pulau Tioman, Pekan, Cherating River, Rumpin, Tnngganu and Kelantan. 
At every opportunity plants were collected, and the results showed what a field lor 
research still lies on the eastern side of the peninsula, for many plants not hitherto 
recorded as occurring in this region, and not a few species unknown to science, were 
here obtained. Many living plants also were col lected, and are now in the Gardens . 
* The number of specimens now arranged in the cabinets is, .roughly speaking, 1.5,000. 
