8 
led in 
the 
Government 
a. 
r. 
A 
1 12 
0 
04 
162 
2 
01 
525 
0 
10 
6 
1 
16 
5 
1 
00 
70 
2 
37 
3 
2 
03 
34 i 
0 
02 
Assistant 
Forest Ran- 
Central District, P. W. 
1. The Forest Reserves in the Central District as no 
Gazette of 5th June, 1896, are five in number, viz. : — 
1. Bukit Seraya, Lots 679 and 680, Mukim XVII 
2. Bukit Mertajam, Lot 815, Mukim XVII 
3. Juru Hill, Lots 542 and 454,, Mukim XII 
4. Bukit Gajah Mati, Lot 637, Mukim XVI 
» >> 638 >„ 
}> 654 ,, 
• 5. Kubang Ulu Experimental Gardens, Lot 394 
‘ Mukim XX 
To these has since been added — 
6. Bukit Goa Ipoh, Lot 410, Mukim XX 
2. The Reserves were visited the Forest Ranger am 
ger, forty times during the year. I visited the Bukit Mertajam, Juru, and Bukit Seraya 
Reserves three times each, and Gajah Mati once. The Experimental Gardens at 
Kubang Ulu (a small plot of land by the road side) and the Goa Ipoh Reserve were 
visited at frequent intervals both by myself and the Forest Rangers. 
3. In six cases, prosecutions were instituted for unlawful cutting of timber, 
chiefly in the Juru Reserve. Only two of these cases were of any importance. In 
one of them a Chinese Towkay of Bukit Tambun had taken out a timber pass to cut 
wood on unreserved land and had begun operations in an out of the way part of the 
Juru Reserve. He was convicted and fined the maximum penalty of ^roo. 
4. Juru Reserve is the only one in which there is any danger of illicit timber 
cutting. It is much larger than the others and there is more valuable timber in it. 
It is, moreover, possible to cut and remove timber from it without much difficulty. 
The other Reserves being for the most part merely the crowns of steep hills whose 
lower slopes are fully cultivated, it is impossible to cut timber in them without im- 
mediate detection, or to remove the timber when cut without great difficulty. 
5. In the early part of the year, before the minute of His Honour the Officer 
Administering the Government forbidding all timber passes in the Forest Reserves 
was received, three passes for timber in the Juru Reserve were issued to the Public 
Works Department in connection with the building of the Bukit Minyak Bridge. No 
other passes have been issued since. 
6. The boundaries of the Reserve have been fairly kept clean by the owners of 
the adjacent lands. 
7. The Experimental Gardens at Kubang Ulu were visited also by Mr. Curtis 
of the Penang Gardens. There are many trees of mahogany growing there, with 
some teak, rubber and eucalyptus trees. The planting is much too close and the 
trees, which have now attained a fair size, are likely to be choked for want of breath- 
ing space. As it stands, and unless some use is to be made of the young trees, the 
Reserve is merely ornamental. 
8. Bukit Goa Ipoh Reserve includes a large extent of waste land at the foot of 
the hill, at present covered with lalang. Frequent fires during the dry season help 
the growth of the lalang by preventing forest trees from taking root and growing. 
I received many applications for land in this Reserve, all of which had to be refused. 
The utility of reserving this land is rather doubtful. 
F, J. HALLIFAX, 
District Officer. 
Southern District, P. W, 
STATEMENT OF AREAS. 
• a, 
Bukit Panchor ... ... • L 5 00 
S IR I have the honour to report on the Forest Reserve in the Southern Dis- 
trict in 1898. 
