i5 
40. Iron pipes for conveying water from the sources above-mentioned, fitted 
with hrass taps for connecting rubber hose pipe, have been fixed, at a cost of $270.54, 
and effect a great saving in labour ; while at the same time the work is much better 
performed. 
41. The road from the upper plant-shed to main bridge, of which 4,716 super- 
ficial feet remained unfinished at the end of 1888, is now complete. It involved a 
large amount of labour, the whple cutting being through a mass of boulders more or 
less hard. All the material used for constructing rock-work, beds for plants, metal- 
ling roads, &c., amounting to several hundred cart-loads, were taken out of this short 
cutting. 
42. The road to the back of the Band Mound, skirting the base of the hill on 
which the Assistant Superintendent’s bungalow is situated, has been widened seven 
feet, and converted into a carriage road eighteen feet broad. In order to connect 
this at the entrance gate, and thus complete the circle, a new bridge, twenty-five feet 
long and eighteen feet wide, has been thrown across the main stream. 
43. The whole of this road, amounting to 27,432 superficial feet; has been 
metalled and put in excellent condition. 
The principal item of expense in connecting this road with the entrance gate, as 
also in laying out the garden generally, is the filling in of holes that have been made 
by the sale of soil and road metal off this land by previous owners. The full extent 
of this w r as not realised until the jungle had been cleared. 
44. Altogether," an area estimated at four acres has been cleared during the I 
year, the principal extension being on the north side in continuation of the original 
scheme ; the sloping, turfing and planting of which will form an important item in 
another year’s work. 
45. Six new beds have been formed near the entrance and filled, principally 
with shrubs of an ornamental nature. Those in which annuals and soft wooded 
foliage plants are grown have been renewed from time to time, as found necessary. 
One dozen new garden seats manufactured by the Public Works Department in 
Singapore, were purchased, and are appreciated, but complaints are still made that 
the number is insufficient. 
46. One plant frame for the raising of ferns and other tender plants was made 
by a carpenter working in the garden, and is a most useful addition. More of the 
same kind are rpuch needed for the purpose of establishing newly collected plants. 
47. Ornamental and useful plants have been received from correspondents, the 
largest contributors being the Director of Botanic Gardens, Calcutta, and the Super- 
intendent of Botanic Gardens, Hongkong. 
48. The collection of plants in pots have been better grown than in previous 
years, and many interesting additions made as the result of two short collecting tours, 
reference to which will be made further on. 
49. An increased interest is, I think, being felt in the cultivation of ornamental 
plants, and as the heavier works of roading, turfing, bridge building, &c. becomes 
less, more attention is devoted to this branch. 
50. The increased number' of visitors is very gratifying, and only the distance 
from town prevents many from oftener enjoying the pleasure, of a visit to the garden. 
51. Plants to the amount of $75 35 were sold, and the money paid into revenue 
account. 
52. The total expenditure in connection with the laying out and maintenance 
of this garden, including all the works of which mention has been made, as well as 
numerous others equally necessary, amount to $6,389.23, details of which are given 
in the Statement of Expenditure annexed (Appendix A). 
Gover?iment Hill Gardens. 
53. The appointment of Mr. A. J. O’Keeffe, as overseer of these gardens, 
which took effect from the first of October last, will, it is hoped, at no distant date, 
result in greater efficiency, both as regards the cultivation of plants and general up- 
keep of grounds. 
