6 
Plants Sent out . 
13. The number of plants sent out during the year was 1,891, and 970 packets 
of seeds. 
1 he chief recipients were the Botanic Gardens of: — Kew, Ceylon, Calcutta, 
Hongkong, Natal, Buitenzorg, Manila, Brisbane, Mauritius, St. Petersburg, Glasgow, 
British Guiana, Trinidad, Jamaica, Saigon; the Sultan of Johor, Mrs. TREACHER 
(Perak); Bishop Hose (Sarawak) ; and Messrs. Rodger (Pahang), VENNING (Selangor), 
Laurie (Ceylon), Hockings (Brisbane), Reasoner (Florida), Bull, Veitch, 
WILLIAMS, Gordon (London), and others. Besides which a number were sent to the 
Gardens of Penang and Malacca. 
Aviary. 
14. The collection of birds and animals has been much increased by various 
specimens presented by the several donors mentioned below. Some of the animals were 
sent by Mr. COPLEY from Malacca, originally for the Museum, but being either in too 
poor a condition to stuff, or not needed, there were sent to the Gardens. Much annoy- 
ance was caused by the rats, which destroyed a number of birds, chiefly pigeons; 
eventually, however, the aviaries were overhauled and a large number killed, and since 
then the destruction has been less. Some of the animals sent in some time after 
being trapped succumbed to injuries then received ; others have done very well. 
They have proved an unfailing source of attraction to the Gardens. It is intended 
to confine the zoological collection to natives of the Peninsula,^ and it is hoped to 
have eventually a fairly good collection of the smaller animals and birds illustrative 
of the fauna. 
Among the more interesting ones recently received, are the Wild Dog of Malacca, 
an undescribed species ; a Mias, on loan ; a couple of Binturongs ; and the rare 
Wood Partridge ( Rhizotheres longirojtris). 
I regret to say that on the night of December 7th, £he only White Swan on the 
lake was stolen. 
The aviary sheds will require much reconstruction this year, and it will be well 
to have them made of a stronger character in future. 
15- Animals Received. 
• ■ 
One Mias {Simla satyrus ) on loan from Mr. Norman. 
Three Golden Monkeys (Macacus sinicus) presented by Miss Cave. 
Two Water Monkeys (M. cynomolgus ) ,, f) 
One Coco-nut Monkey (M . nemest r inns') ,, ,, 
One Galago ( Galeopithecus volans) purchased. 
' One Loris ( Loris tardigrada ) purchased. 
-Four Javanese Wild Cats [Fells javensis ) purchased. 
One Fishing Cat (F. viverrina ) presented by the Hon’ble D. A. Hervey. 
One Wild Dog (Cam's sp.) purchased. 
Two Tangalungas ( Viverra zibethina ) purchased. 
Two Musangs (Viverra malaccensis) purchased. 
One Mungoose (Herpestes griseus) presented by Mr. F. BALFOUR Lees. 
One Binturong ( Arctictis binturong) presented by Mr. J. P. Rodger. 
One Binturong ( Do. ) purchased. 
One Bamboo Rat ( Rhizomys pruinosus ) presented by Mr. G. Lavino. 
Four Indian Squirrels ( Sciurus tristriatus) presented by Mr. E. C. Hill. 
Birds. 
One Fishing Owl (Ketupia javanensis) purchased. 
One Little Owl ( Scops lempigi) presented by Mr. W. Davison. 
Four Hornbills ( Craniorrhinus corrugatus ) presented by Mr. W. DAVISON. 
One Rufous-tailed Pheasant ( Euplocamos erytkropthalmos ) presented by 
Mr. Henderson. 
Two Rufous-tailed Pheasants, female, purchased. 
One Fire-backed Pheasant ( E . vieillotii ) presented by Mr. Henderson. 
Four Wood Partridges (Rhizotheres longirostris ) purchased. 
One Purple Water Hen (Porphyrio edwardsii) ,, 
One Green Parrot (Lorius sp.) n 
One Red Parrot (Lorius sp.) }f 
One Lory (Lorius sp.) presented by Miss Stanton. 
Two Roul-rouls (Rollulus roul-roul ) purchased. 
Twelve Green Pigeons (Chalcophaps indica ) „ 
Six Mangrove Pigeons ( Osmatreron vernans) ,. 
♦ 
