*3 
not in this collection, has been compiled, and will, it is hoped, stimulate local Bota- 
nists to hunt for the missing ones, several of which are but imperfectly represented 
in any existing herbarium. 
Waterfall Garden . 
io. As in previous years the* supervision of this garden occupied the greater 
portion of the Assistant Superintendent’s time and it is satisfactory to note that (un- 
like most things in Penang) there is, year by year, an increased interest taken in its 
progress. 
. ii. Owing to the unusually heavy rainfall the general work of maintenance, 
especially of roads and paths, absorbed a larger amount of labour than usual, and in 
• addition to this two land-slips in the steepest part of the grounds occupied all hands 
many days in repairing the damage ; on the whole a fair state of efficiency has been 
maintained and a considerable number of new works and improvements carried out 
by the garden staff, as detailed below. 
12. Want of space in which to grow the rapidly increasing collection of plants 
necessitated the erection of an additional plant shed in the nursery, mainly for the 
cultivation of palms; this is a span roofed shed, 120 by 20 feet, the supports being 
hardwood scantling 5.6 inches in diameter, and the roof of Bertam chicks painted green. 
13. To provide for a want that has often been pointed out by visitors a sum- 
mer house capable of sheltering from rain or sun twenty or more persons has been 
put up near the band-stand, where it will be equally useful on band nights. The 
back and sides of this are built of rough rock-work and planted with a variety of 
ferns and other ornamental plants. 
14. The construction of a new cascade in the main stream is not only an addi- 
tional feature of interest but serves to check the rapid wearing away of the banks on 
either side which has been going on for years. 
15. A dam, fifty feet long thrown across the entrance to an old stone quarry in a 
secluded part of the garden, forms an excellent swimming bath, sixty-eight feet’ long 
by fifty-six in breadth, with an average depth of about five feet, and also supplies the 
plant sheds with water. At a meeting of the Garden Committee it was decided that 
a caretaker be placed in charge and that an annual subscription fee of one dollar be 
charged to residents and ten cents fbr each visit to strangers ; and although the dress- 
ing shed was not quite finished on the 31st December, residents commenced using it 
and up to the present (January 10th) more than one hundred have notified their inten- 
tion of subscribing. 
16. One of the old sheds in the nursery which was in a bad state has been re-built 
and the beds on which the plants are set built of rough stone. There is now no wooden 
staying remaining in this garden. 
17. The large plant shed near the entrance, the interior of which is built of 
rock-work and planted with a great variety of ornamental plants, has been re-roofed 
with jungle rollers and “ chicks.” The doing this without damaging the specimen plants 
was a matter of some difficulty, and I would again point out the desirability of “p 
iron being substituted for wood in the construction of plant sheds. Under the 
present system of temporary wood structures, plants barely attain to perfection before 
some portion of the buildiVg requires repair, in effecting which more or less damage 
is always done. 
18. Two small bridges on the main circular drive originally built of wood have 
been permamently replaced by granite slabs, so that there now remains but the con- 
struction of new bridge over the main stream, for which provision is made in the Esti- 
mates for the current year to complete this portion of the grounds. 
19. The side drains in the steeper parts of the garden are much damaged every 
year by heavy rains, and a commencement in the direction of remedying this has been 
made by constructing about seven hundred lineal feet in stone and cem'ent, with the 
intention of continuing this as labour can be spared for the purpose. 
20. Sloping, turfing and planting four acres of steep land on the north-west 
side, the clearing of which had been commenced in 1889, has been completed, and 
