2 
A superb plant of Todea barbara , stated to be over a hundred years ol I was pre- 
sented to the Gardens by Baron VON MUELLER, and two plants of the rare Ashlenium 
subaquatile from Borneo, were also received. A large tuber of Amorpkophallus 
titanum was presented by Mrs. WlLLlS Smith. 
Both the Vanillas which produce the commercial Vanilloes, viz., V. ptanifolia and 
V. pompona, flowered and fruited this year. 
Herbarium . 
6. During my absence no collections of herbarium specimens were made. The 
most important additions were 1,503 specimens from* the collections of WAL.UCH, and 
HANCE selected by myself from the duplicates of the British Museum Herbarium, and 
presented by the Trustees of that institution. 
Five hundred and thirty-eight (53S) specimens from the Peninsula and India, pre- 
sented by Dr. King. 
Sixty-six (66) specimens of grasses and ferns of North America, received in 
exchange. 
Two hundred and forty-three (243) specimens from Bonthain Peak, Celebes, pre- 
sented by Mr. A. H. EVERETT, and a small collection made in Province Wellesley 
and Penang, by myself in December. A small number of specimens of various kinds 
were sent to the Royal Gardens, Kew, and to Dr. King. 
The cabinets for wood specimens being too small to contain the collection, some 
more have been added, and the old ones repaired and varnished. 
Bulletin. 
0 
7. An Agricultural Bulletin dealing with sago and its cultivation and with soils, 
was published early in the year. 
Forestry. 
# 8. In December, in accordance with instructions, I visited Penang and Province 
Wellesley to look into the remaining forests with a view of taking ste f «s for their 
better preservation, and a report was duly forwarded to the Hjn'ble the Colonial 
Secretary on the subject. 
L ibrary. 
9. The following works were added to the Library in addition to the usual jour- 
nals, bulletins and reports. : — 
Greshoff. — Nutzige Indische Planten, Part I, presented by Colonial Museum, 
Amsterdam. 
Schlich. — Manual of Forestry, presented by Author. 
Trimen. — Flora of Ceylon, Vol. Ill, presented by Ceylon Government. 
Ridley. — Flora of the East Coast of the Malay Peninsula, presented by Author. 
Ridley. — New species of ihismia, presented by Author. 
Waliich’s Catalogue, presented by the Trustees of British Museum. 
Beddome. — Ferns of Southern India, presented by the Trustees of Britt di Museum. 
Dunal, — Monograph des Anonacees, presented by the l rustles ot British Museum. 
Dunal. — Histoire des Solanacees, presented by the Trustees of B itish Museum. 
Mold. — Vernicschte Schriften, .presented by the Trustees of British Museum. 
Mold. — Uber des Winlerliche Farbung, presented by the Trustees of British 
Museum. 
Mold. — Bau des Vegetabilisehen Zellmembran, presented by the Trustees of 
British Museum. 
Radlkofer. — Serjania, presented by the Trustees of British Museum. 
Bureau. — Loganiaceae.and Bignoniaceae, presented by the Trustees of British 
Museum. 
Soubeiran. — Acclimatation des Cinchonas, presented by the Trustees of British 
Museum. 
Chevreul.— -Absorption de TAzote, presented by the Trustees of British Museum. 
Sprengei. — Intfoduction to the study of Cryptogams, presented by the Trustees 
of British Museum. 
Sprengei. — Tentamen Supplement ad syst. vegetat. Linnaei, presented by the 
Trustees of British Museum. 
Victorian Exhibition. — Indigenous Vegetable Substances, presented by the Trus- 
tees of British Museum. 
Wight's Catalogue, presented by the Trustees of British Museum. 
Taylor, T. — Arbores Mirabiles, presented by the Trustees of British Museum. 
jEgineta. — Pharmacia Simpiicia. presented by the Trustees of British Museum. 
Salm Dyck. — Cacteae, presented by the Trustees of British Museum, 
