12 
APPENDIX A. 
GARDENS AND FOREST DEPARTMENT, PENANG. , 
Leave of absence having been granted on account of ill-health, I wds absent from 
the Settlement from January 26th to December 25th. During that time Mr. Derry 
took charge, and, I regret to find, suffered much from fever. It is a matter for serious 
consideration whether it would not be better to remove the present quarters to a 
more salutary spot. 
Forest Reserves. 
No additions have been made during the year, but the existing boundaries have 
been recleared where necessary, and regularly patrolled by the Guards, who instituted 
during the year fifty-nine prosecutions for illicit timber cutting and encroachments, as 
against fifty in the previous year. In forty-eight cases the offenders were punished, 
and the others dismissed ,with a caution. 
2. The Station at Penara Bukit, which has become quite uninhabitable, has been 
reconstructed under the supervision of the Public . Works Department at. a cost of 
$400, and minor repairs done to the Station at lelok Bahang. 
а. The nursery and village reserve at Kubang Ulu, Province Wellesley, has, du- 
ring the year, been transferred from this Department to the charge of the Olstiict 
Officer of Bukit Mertajam, to be used, I presume, chiefly for raising shade trees to 
plant up the principal roads. 
4. The total expenditure in connection with maintenance of Forest Reserves 
and Kubang Ulu Nursery for the year amounts to $2,300 as shown in statement of 
expenditure annexed. 
Waterfall Garden. , 
5. This garden continues to maintain its popularity both with residents and 
visitors passing through. The development of trees, &c. is most noticeable after an 
absence of nearly a year. 
б. Considerable progress has been made in the construction of side drains, with 
stone and cement, in the steeper portions 'of the grounds where the wash is consider- 
able. 
7. Anew culvert, one hundred and twenty ivet long and two tect broad, has 
been built to r.rrrv off the rain-water from Government Hill Road, which will, it is 
hoped, give a better chance of establishing an avenue of Polyalthia Ion f if alia, from 
the entrance gate to the garden office. * 
8. Some new beds and a circular path have been laid out around the Band 
Stand, which is an improvement to this part of the grounds. 
n Portions of the main roads have been metalled, and the foot-paths period- 
ically weeded and put in order. Bridges and plant sheds have been repaired, and the 
usual routine work in connection with beds, borders, &c. attended to. 
io.. The Swimming Bath, which was opened on the 1st January at a merely 
nominal* charo-e, has' been well patronized, and yielded a revenue of $180.05, which 
considerably more than covers salary of care-taker and other incidental expenses, 
besides giving an ample water supply to the plant nursery. 
n. The revenue from plant sales is more than in any ^previous year, the total 
amount collected being $312.91, as against $J-20 in 1S90, and $75 m i8S 9 - , 
12. The new Municipal Reservoir in course of construction at the top of the 
garden, and the consequent cartage of all material for the work over the garden roads, . 
render impossible for the present that state of neatness d esirable in a public garden.. 
The ultimate result of this work, as regards its general ct on the appearance of 
the warden, will depend largely on the extent to which the Municipal Commissioners 
co-0 no rate in making up the surrounding, &c. when the work is coipplele. At present 
it is anything J>ut an ornament. 
