i5 
Grubbing for tin has capsized trees in all directions so that it is easy to get to 
examine the orchids and various other plants growing on them. There had been 
no rain for some time previous to my visit and many of the smaller things such as 
filmy ferns both on rocks and trees were quite shrivelled up. Many larger plants 
of a succulent nature were hanging limp and languishing for rain. They got it 
before I left. During the night I thought the matter over and came to the conclusion 
that if I took my bedding, provisions, &c. to the top and slept there it would take the 
kind of men 1 had a long time to get up, and I should get but few plants carried. 
Consequently I decided to leave my boy with all the things at the Kongsi-hou.se, 
take all the men out with me to carry plants and return at night. 
From this point none -of the men knew the path to the top, but they knew that 
higher up the stream, there was one more Kongsi which if we could find some inform- 
ation could be obtained so we kept to the stream until we struck it. Here- some 
qf the men spoke Malay and one came with us to show the path until a point was 
reached, after which there could be no mistake. 
't here is a pretty stiff bit before getting on to the last ridge but the whole dis- 
tance from Kuala Depang to the top could be done in a day by one in pretty good 
training and desirous of doing the thing quickly. The height I was told is 4,090 feet 
but judging from the*vegete.tion I. should have thought it more. The hut on the top 
is in excellent order and water is obtainable at a much less distance from the top 
than I expected. We remained on the top for about an hour, admiring the view and 
refreshing the inner man, after which we commenced to retrace our steps and collect 
things spotted on the way up. 
Up to this time 1 had not seen a spot of rain since leaving Penang but during 
the night it came on heavy and as the Kongsi-house leaked like a sieve, things were 
a bit uncomfortable. On the way down we got another thorough soaking so that 
by this time the vegetation will be looking much better than when I was up. Alto- 
gether it is a most interesting mountain. On th£ top there are a great number of 
the fir tree that grows on Government Hill “ Kayu Rue Bulat” (Dacrydium elatum) 
but they are smaller and more stunted. Most of the Orchids have rather insignificant 
or dull coloured flowers but they are very abundant. Some of the ground Orchids 
are of great interest. Two kinds of Rhododendrons, a pitcher plant, and scores of 
other things of great interest were noticed and collected. All the way up Palms 
abound, but the animals, monkeys I think, manage to get all the seeds before they 
are quite ripe. On the rocks are an abundance of Ferns, Begonias, Indian primroses 
and other small-growing plants in great variety. Having a day to spare after coming 
down, f tried Bujong Malacca again from the Kuala Depang Valley side. It is much 
steeper than the usual path to the top and I did not find anything strikingly different 
to what I had already collected the previous days. On the morning of the 12th I 
went out to some’rocks near Kuala Depang to get a Begonia and one or two other 
things noted previously and later in the day went on to Kampar, -where I remained 
the night in the Rest House. 
Arrived in Penang on the morning of the 14th. 
C. CURTIS. 
