2 
Upkeep and Buildings. 
The chief building alterations were the reconstruction of the back of the large 
plant-house, the old wooden posts and ataps were removed and the aisles roofed with 
chicks from Penang, supported oil iron pillars. The old Beaumontia, which climbed 
over the roof was lowered when the roof was taken away and supported on an arch 
made of rough coral, in the interstices of which ferns and other plants have been 
planted. A tank for water-plants was made at one end of- the plant-house and has been 
very attractive. The old wooden tables which used to carry smaller plants in pots 
were removed and replaced by permanent brick and cement structures which add 
much to the ornamental appearance of the house. Four additional long coral and 
cement tables were made in the Nursery, with brick pillars and iron arches to carry 
chicks or battens which will form a large addition to the space required for pot- 
plants. 
The beds, borders and shrubberies were renewed as required, and manured and 
cleaned at intervals. About a hundred yards of road running down from the main hill 
towards the lake was remetalled. 
- Plants in flower. 
The following were among the more interesting of the plants which flowered for 
the first time in the Gardens. Camoensia maxima (West Africa), Vatica Waliichiami 
(Malay Peninsula), Ilex nigro-punctata (Brazil), Ravema spectabilis (Cuba), Solandra 
grUndiflora (South America), Ixora barbata (India), Bignonia incarnata (Guiana), 
Gymnos tacky u m Ceylanicum (Ceylon), Bignonia n. sp. (Penang), Dammar a robust a 
(Australia), Aristolochia saceata ClBrodendro n. sp. (Borneo), a most remarkable 
climber with the terminal leaves on the flowering spray of a beautiful red colour 
Cleistanthus parvifolius (Pahang), Triomma mtilaccensis (Singapore). 
Korthalsia Scaphigera Dendrobium refractum D. Foxii n. sp. (Perak), 
CvanastYum cordifolntm (Africa), Hcemanthus Lmdeni (Africa), Arisocnui Roxburghu 
(Penang), Aniomnm n. sp, (New Guinea), Habenama Columbs. ? n. sp. (Siam), Amor- 
phophallus gigantens and A Titanum flowered again. 
Plants received and distributed. 
During the year there were received 337 packets and bags of seeds, 600 plants 
and tubers besides the monthly supplies purchased from Messrs. Carter &Co. Among 
the seeds of importance were 8 bags of mahogany and* 5 lbs. of Pterocarpus Macro- 
carpus from Dr. Prain of Calcutta. Some rare palm seeds from Herr WENDLAND ol 
Hereenhausen and Prof. Cornu of Paris. Of the new plant introductions the most 
valuable from an economic point of view came from the Royal Gardens Kew ; amongst 
them being a new Coffee, and a new variety of Cocoa, a new African rubber Landolphia 
Klainei, some interesting palms and a new pisang, Musa Livingstonei. 
The finest introduction of ornamental plants was a fine series of nymphaeas from 
Messrs. Henry A. Dreer of Philadelphia, U. S A., which have flowered very freely, 
and made our lily ponds a beautiful sight in fhe early morning. 
The contributors were as follows : — 
The Royal Gardens, Kew. 
Botanical Gardens, Buitenzorg. 
,, Melbourne. 
,, Trinidad. 
,, Berlin. 
J( Queensland. 
,, Ootacamund. 
„ Ceylon. 
}} Calcutta. 
,, Old Calabar. 
„ Sydney. 
„ British Guiana. 
Conservator of Forests, Dehra Dun. 
„ Chittagong. 
H. A. Dreer, Philadelphia. 
Messrs. Herb & Wulle. 
Messrs. Dammann. 
T. W. Brown, Esquire. 
1 J. S. Goodenough, Esquire, 
j M. Cornu. 
M. Vernet. 
Messrs. Williams Bros. 
St.V. B. Down, Esquire. 
E. R. Salisbury, Esquire. 
J. Pereira. 
W. D. Barnes, Esquire. 
.H. Wendland, Esquire. 
W. Meikle, Esquire. 
Dr. Braddon. 
C. Curtis, Esquire. 
There were 399 plants and 134 packages of seeds sent out to various gardens 
and contributors besides those sent to planters and others in the Colony and Native 
States. Five Wardian Cases of fruit trees and economic plants were sent to His 
