3 
Herbarium. 
9. Owing to the absence of the Assistant Superintendent for a considerable 
part of the year, it was impossible to make any botanical excursions, and compar- 
atively few specimens were added to the herbarium. During my annual visit to 
Penang, the Dindings and Selangor, I obtained a small collection of plants, Mr. CURTIS 
sent 136 specimens from Penang, Mr. Fox collected some plants in Penang and also 
in the Thaiping Hills, including a pretty new Dendrobium; Mr. Derry sent also a 
number from Perak, Mr. Goodenough sent 240 from Selangor, and Mr. MlCHOLlTZ 
presented specimens from Labuan. 
The plant-collector was sent to Selangor but obtained very little. A hundred 
specimens of Australian ferns were received in exchange from the Sydney Botanic 
Gardens. 
Duplicate specimens for naming or exchange were sent to various establishments 
and botanists, vis., 221 specimens to Kew, 439 to Calcutta, 67 to the British Museum, 
1,130 to Dr. Gandoger in exchange for books, 400 to Sydney Museum, 44 ferns to 
Dr. Christ, 30 to the Pharmaceutical Society and 105 mosses to Mr. MiTTEN for 
naming. A number of fungi were sent to Kew, and named by Mr. MASSE E who 
found a large proportion of new species among them, which were described in the 
Kew Bulletin. 
Five pounds of the bark of Roucheria G riffithiana “ Ipoh Akar Putih,” supposed 
to be poisonous and used in the Sakai dart poison were sent to Dr. GRESHOFF for 
•examination. 
A few specimens of woods were obtained and added to the collection, and a 
specimen of the Gutta of Dichopsis Maingayi from Jelebu was presented by Mr, Gunn. 
Library. 
10. The following books were added to the Gardens Library during the year : — - 
Hiern and Rendle.— Catalogue of Wehvitsch’s African plants vol. iii presented 
by the Trustees of the British Museum. 
Trimen, Dr. — Handbook of the Flora of Ceylon, vol. iv. 
Dyer, Sir W. T. Thiselton — Flora of Tropical Africa, presented by Royal Gar- 
dens, Kew. 
Lhotsy, f. P. — Cinchona Calisaya and succirubra, * 
Maiden, J. H. — A preliminary study of Prickly Pears, 
,, Indigenous vegetable drugs, i. ii., * 
„ 'bracts on New South Wales, * 
,, A variety of Panicum decompositura, * 
Notes from the Botanic Gardens, Sydney, * 
,, Observations on Eucalypti of New South Wales, * 
,, The Weeds of New South Wales, * 
Christ, Dr. — Pteridographische Notizen, ^ 
,, Fougeres de Mengtze, Yunnan", * 
„ Monographic de Elaphoglossum, * 
,, Enumeratio de quelques Fougeres, * 
Raciborski, M. — Biologische Mitheilungen aus Java, * 
,, Weitere Mitheilungen, * 
,, * Pseudogardneria, * 
Pflanzen pathologisches aus Java, £. 
„ Einegen Demonstrationeer’s versuche mit Leptomia, -* 
Heine, Dr, — Biologic relations between ants and plants, * 
Medley-Wood, J. — Natal plants. 
Berg, Dr, C. — Communicaciones del Musei Naciqual de Buenos Ayres. 
Riviere, Ch. — Notes on Ramie, presented by Mr. South. 
Galbraith, S. J. — Vanilla culture, f 
Chesnut, R. — Thirty poisonous plants of North America, f 
Merriam, C. H. — Lifezones and cropzones of North America, f 
" North American Fauna, t 
Trelease, W. — Botanical opportunity, t 
Beal, E. L. — Cuckoos and shrikes, f 
Bailey, L. H. — Factors of organic evolution, t 
Plumb, C. S. — Geographic distribution of Cereals, t 
* Presented by the Author. 
t Presented by the Department of Agriculture, U. S .A. 
