5 
FOREST DEPARTMENT, SINGAPORE. 
Introduction. 
The great reduction of the Forest Vote for this year has precluded any great 
progress being made in forestry, and the consequent reduction of the number of men 
employed has been followed by an increase, in thefts of Government timber and in 
fires. Two small reserves have been practically abandoned, viz., Bedok, and Upper 
Tanglin, and it has been difficult to protect the other reserves or to keep the bounda- 
ry-paths open and clean. 
Staff. 
The absence of Mr. Derry on leave in June, entailed transferring Mr. GOOD- 
ENOUGH to Malacca to take up the acting appointment, and his place was taken by 
the Coco-nut Trees Inspector, Baker, Tor some months, when T. Bayliss was appointed. 
From January to November, 19 forest watchmen were employed, but it was then found 
necessary to reduce them to 10. 
Planting . 
A considerable number of timber trees were planted during the year, chiefly 
Bilian ( Eusideroxylon Schwagerii ) , of which, 2,270 young trees were planted on 
Bukit Timah, and 1,680 at Bukit Mandai, where also 970 trees of Balam and 370 
Kuku Balan Utan were planted. The “ Fire-guard ” along the Bukit Mandai Road was 
cleaned of weeds. The trees have now attained, a fair size, and have already shewn 
their use in resisting the advance of fire.- 
The India-rubber trees ( Hevea braziliensis ) , male bamboos ( Dendro- 
calamus strictus) , and Rengas ( Gluta Renghas), planted some years ago, have made 
rapid growth and seem to be doing very well. Many more young plants of Bilian 
and other timber trees sown in 1892, remain in the Nursery beds, but cannot be 
planted out on account of want of funds. Indeed, an extra grant of *$500 was 
found necessary in order to cover the expenses of planting out those which were 
ready for removal this year. 
Licenses. 
' Owing to the working out of most of the mangrove swamp districts in the 
neighbourhdbd of Singapore, the application for firewood licenses has very much 
increased, and the demand can hardly be supplied, although the price of the licenses 
has again been raised. One hundred and thirty-six (136) passes for cutting firewood', 
fishing stakes, lalang, and rattans, in the reserves of Changi, Kranji, Seletar, Sungei 
Pandan and Toas were issued. 
$ c. 
The revenue derived from these passes and other sales amounted to 441 50 
$ c. 
356 50 
35 00 O 
1 00 
1 50 
12 OO 
2 OO 
4 OO 
2 OO 
# 2 50 
416 50 
18 OO 
7 00 
$ 44 i 5 ° 
Fires. 
Fourteen fires occurred in the reserves during the year, about 202 acres of lalang, 
and brushwood being destroyed. The largest outbreak was at Bukit Mandai reserve! 
where 152 acres of grass and secondary forest, and upwards of four hundred seedlings 
were burnt. 
Prosecutions . 
Nine persons were prosecuted for removing timber, etc., one of whom was cau- 
tioned and dismissed, the remainder were fined or imprisoned, the fines amounting to 
$ 104. of which, $66 were paid. 
H. N. RIDLEY, 
Director of Gardens and Forests. 
Mangrove firewood, 
Fishing stakes, rollers, etc., 
Rattan, ... 
Lalang, ... 
Sale of gutta-percha leaves, 
Sale of an old hut, 
Sale of an old boat, . . . 
S'marum timber, • 
Temporary occupation licenses, 
Farming of pepper encroachments, 
„ fruit trees, 
