i5 
Government Hill Gardens. 
31. The removal of coolies from the Experimental Nursery in 1889 proved 
beneficial, there being now very few cases of fever as compared with previous years. 
The appointment of Mr. O’Keeffe as Overseer has not, however, resulted in improve- 
ments to the extent anticipated; and in saying this I do not in any way reflect on 
Mr. O’Keeffe, who is, in many respects, an excellent man but lacking the practical 
knowledge of gardening that can only be acquired by long experience where plants 
and vegetable^ are well grown. Nothing less than a good practical working gar- 
dener will bring these gardens to the point they are capable of attaining. • 
32. Mr. O’Keeffe reports, and my own weekly visits confirm his opinion, that 
the Chinaman in the vegetable garden have worked well, and the result has been a 
constant and fairly good supply of such European things as carrots, lettuce, celery, 
&c., as well as some of the best native kinds, so that occupants of the bungalow have 
never been short, while a fortnightly supply was, for some months, sent to Singapore. 
33. Rose beds have from time to time been lightly pruned and manure applied 
about every two months, and the supply of blooms constant throughout the year. In 
this climate where there is neither a cold nor a dry season to induce rest, these and 
many other plants, natives of more temperate regions, wear out rapidly, and can only 
be kept up by frequently renewing the stock. 
34. Owing to the presence of a great number of workmen and litter of material 
consequent on ^construction of new wing to Government Bungalow, the grounds 
and flower beds have not been so neatly kept as would otherwise have been the case. 
The formation of tennis court and many improvements in connection with this part 
of the grounds will fall into another year’s work. 
35. Since the removal of pot plants, &c. from Experimental Nursery to top of 
Government Hill, on account of severe and frequent attacks of fever among the men 
employed, the cultivation of fruit trees is the most important work in this nursery. These 
have been cleaned, pruned and manured twice with cow manure, burnt earth and 
bone dust. A few of the lemons and oranges introduced from Malta and Australia 
• have borne fruit, but the quality, so far, is indifferent. Olives are looking healthy, but 
show no sign of fruiting. Avocado peax grows luxuriantly and should commence 
bearing soon. Peaches grow well, but this year there has not been a single fruit, 
owing, I think, to tHe excessive rainfall, amounting to about 160 inches for the year. 
Coco-nut Trees. 
36. In October, Mr. Xavier was appointed Inspector under the Ordinance for 
Preservation of Coco-nut Trees, and although but few prosecutions have yet been 
instituted, a great number of dead trees and rubbish likely to prove breeding places 
have been destroyed. It is satisfactory to find that the majority are inclined to 
comply with the terms of the Ordinance and only ask for more time, but there are, as 
might be expected, some whom it will be necessary to compel to perform the work. 
% 37. The greater number of dead and badly affected trees belong to small own- 
ers, while the "large estate containing tens of thousands have scarcely a bad free. 
This is attributable to two causes, first the greater care and attention bestowed, and 
second the absence of suitable breeding places when at some distance from human 
habitations. 
38. The Inspector has gone over the whole of Penang Island and compiled a 
list of owners arid the number of dead or affected trees belonging to each, the ap- 
proximate total number being about 3,000. 
39. The total number of healthy trees in full bearing is approximately 2,852,000 ; 
and the lowest estimate of value I have had from a competent judge is thirty cents 
per annum per tree, while in certain places one dollar is not considered too high. 
Taking the lowest figure for the basis of an estimate the annual crop of Penang Is- 
land alone’is worth $8,556 without taking into consideration Province Wellesley 
which has not yet been •estimated. 
"M 
