6 
! 
fa\ our of burnt earth and cowdung ; lime and poudrette seemed not to benefit the 
plants at all. 
Brncea Sumatrana.— This new dysentery drug was introduced to Sin^anore 
from Pahang in 1892, by myself, and its use in cases of dysentery described In the 
bulletin of this year. There was a fairly good demand for it from varied parts of the 
world especially India, and a piece of ground was planted up with it. I he shrub 
fruited in 6 months after planting, and gVevV very readily. A bag of ten pounds 
weight of seed was sent to Messrs. BURROUGHS AND WELLCOME, for experiment 
Among the plants of economic value received during the year were two species 
of Anona from Mexico with edible fruit, Eugenia owariensis ( 'Nsali” with eatable fruit 
the Nyasa Land Coffee, and the “ Masanda . an Artoearpus with edible seeds and 
some Amomums from Uganda, the Rotan Segar, Calamus sp. from Muar the best 
rattan in the Peninsula; Seeds of Bambusa spinosa, Dendrocalamus strictus and 16 
bags of Swietenia Macrophylla from Calcutta, Copernicia cerifera Wax Palm from 
Guiana, Javanese vegetable seeds from Mr. COHEN, American vegetable seed from 
U. S. A. Department of Agriculture. 
The chief demand for economic plants besides Para rubber, was for Fruit trees 
and Vanilla. Large collections of various economic plants were supplied to British 
New Guinea, the Seychelles Gardens and the experimental station of Selangor. 
Upkeep of Economic Gardens Vote $r ; 888.oo 
Expenditure ,| 1*879.50 
Balance ... §> 8.50 
Inspection of Coconut Trees. 
During, the year notices t6 cut down infected trees were served on 238 persons 
and 1,039 dead trees and 35 piles of rubbish were destroyed. 1 here were no pro- 
secutions. The number of red beetles especially has greatly diminished in Singa- 
pore, so that it was some time before I could get a couple for a correspondent & in 
Madagascar who wished to see it. 
Vote 
Transport 
Uniform 
Balance 
$210.00 
169.90 
17.^0 
22.90 
$2 1 0.00 
Upkeep of Government House Grounds and Domain. 
The man dor Tajurdin resigned early in the year and was replaced by Rappa 
who has worked very well. The coolies worked satisfactorily, a new bit of ground 
was opened as a vegetable garden, and produced a quantity of vegetables, and the 
grounds were kept in good condition. 
Vote 
Expenditure 
... $2,024.00 
••• L955-57 
Balance ... $ 68.43 
. Planting in Forest Reserves. 
There was still a good deal of fever among the men engaged at Bukit Timah 
forest, and eventually the Mandor Castawi was removed from there and transferred to 
the Botanic Gardens. The six men worked well and 14,000 trees, chiefly Gutta 
Percha, were planted. The young trees were cleaned up and the paths opened where 
they had got covered. As a portion of the reserve was alienated by Government for 
cooly lines for the quarry, all the trees on it that could be moved were transferred. 
The hot weather interfered a good deal with the planting but the Gutta plants seem- 
ed to suffer very little from it. Some of the wild Gutta percha trees fruited 
in the forest, as they did in the Gardens, and a quantity of seed was obtained which 
1L 
