6 , 
Economic Garden . 
An additional vote of $500 enabled much more work to be done here than in 
previous years. A large amount of ground was cleared of fern and dug over, 
and partly turfed, especially on the hill facing Dalvey Road where a number of trees 
were planted chiefly belonging to the orders Bignoniaceae , Laurineae y Proteaceae , 
Myristicaceae and Euphorbiaceae. 
On the top of the main-hill, which was turfed, a collection of Coniferae was 
planted, and further patches of land were cleared and planted with Guttiferae and 
Anacardiaceae. In the lower part of the Garden, the ground was cleared, and beds 
made for different kinds of bananas, vanilla, male bamboo, coca, vegetables, ramie, 
and Mauritius hemp,' for all of which there have been considerable demands, but the 
year will be always remarkable for the enormous demand for ramie plants, of which 
a very large number have been supplied to the Native States, Borneo and 
Sumatra, and, in a less degree, to Singapore. The propagation of this plant occu- 
pied a very large share of the labour, as the original stock in the Garden was by 
no means large, it being a plant seldom asked for till this year. Next to ramie, Para 
rubber attracted planters, and a very large amount of seed (2,810) and plants were 
purchased. 
A number of planters and others interested in cultivation of economic plants 
visited the Garden to study the methods of propagation and culture. 
Vote, 
Expenditure : — 
Mandore, 
Coolies, 
Manure, 
•Materials and Tools, 
Laterite, ... . 
Lime and Bricks, 
Balance in Bank, 
... $1,500 
$ c . 
180 00 
909 66 
101 50 
132 46 
39 50 
40 98 
95 90 
Total, ...$1,500.00 
Inspection of Coco-nut Trees. 
As mentioned in last year’s Report, the red beetle increased enormously , owing to 
the reduction of the staff to one coolie, so that it was imperative to add an Inspector, 
and in May, Ahmat bin Haji Omar was appointed. 
Three hundred and sixty-six notices were served on persons who had dead or 
dying trees or rubbish, likely to serve as breeding grounds for beetles. One thousand 
two hundred and sixty trees, and two thousand two hundred and ninety stumps, 
and twenty-five piles of rubbish and cow dung destroyed. There were thirty -two. 
prosecutions for non-compliance with the notices, and fines amounting to $95 were 
inflicted. 
The vote for the year was, 
Expenditure : — 
... $350.00 
Salaries, . . 
... $189.29 
Transport, 
... 71.23 
Removing trees, 
Miscellaneous — Uniform etc., 
••• 39-55 
9.20 
Balance, 
• 40-73 
$350.00 
Government House Domain. 
During the year, twenty-six coolies and the mandore James were employed on 
the Domain. One of the lawns was dug up and entirely re-turfed with Doub-grass 
(Cynodon). The plant-houses Were entirely re-roofed and brick pillars built to sup- 
port the s.taging. One hundred and fifty new tubs and pots were purchased, and most 
of the plants re-potted. An additional piece of ground was prepared and planted 
with vegetables. The great extent of grass which constantly requires cutting takes 
up most of the coolies’ time, sixteen men being usually employed on this work. 
