4 
There was a good deal of mortality among the animals this year, partly due to 
the excessive wet, which is very dangerous to birds during moulting, and due also to a 
certain amount of difficulty in getting a satisfactory aviary keeper in place of the 
former one who left during the strike of the coolies. The two greatest losses were the 
wild dog ( Cyon javanicus ), which there is reason to believe was poisoned, and 
the crowned pigeon, which died of an attack of diarrhoea. This bird had been 
over eleven years in the Gardens and was full grown when obtained. The large 
Orang-Utan, presented last year by Mr. NORMAN, also died of an attack of cholera, to 
which disease the anthropoid apes seem very subject. The whole of the aviaries 
were repaired and a new shed was made for, the mouse deer. 
Floiver Show . 
The Flower Show was held on March 25th and 26th, during the visit of H. R. H. the 
Duke of Connaught, who, with the Duchess, visited the exhibition on the evening of 
the first day. There were a larger number of exhibitors than on previous years, and 
in addition to the exhibits from Singapore, Johor, Penang and Malacca, a large series 
of fruit, rattans, coffee and other produce was sent down from Perak. The orchid 
exhibits were particularly noteworthy and the agricultural products were better than 
any that have been shown before. 
Experimental Garden. 
This garden, which was formerly under the Forest Department, is now transferred 
to the Gardens, which is a more satisfactory arrangement, as it had long ceased to 
be solely used as a nursery of forest trees, but during the last year it was kept as in 
former years. A small baird of men alone could be afforded out of the forest votes, 
and they were not able to do much more than keep the beds and walks clean, and 
do a small amount of propagation. The Lygodium and other climbing plants which 
were smothering the young trees in the nursery, were cleared off, and the whole 
ground cleared of unnecessary bushes and grass. The sugar canes, which had 
showed signs of suffering from Sereh-disease, were cut down and replanted in a 
different spot where they are thriving. 
A large number of cuttings of Dendrocalamus strictus were made and planted 
and seem to be doing well. There ts a great demand for this (the male bamboo), 
for lance handles for the cavalry and it seems to be increasingly, difficult to procure. 
' The plants in the Botanic Gardens seem to be of good quality, and if propagated on 
a large scale will be in all probability a profitable cultivation. 
The Para-Rubber trees continue to thrive in the damper spots, and those that are 
old enough to cut, produce a considerable quantity of rubber, which appears of good 
quality. Samples have been sent to England for analysis. If the quality is satisfactory, 
this plant wall be well worthy of cultivation in many spots of #amp waste land in which 
few other crops can be grown without great expense in draining. 
Treculia africana . — The African bread-fruit* fruited several times last year, which 
hitherto it has not done. The fruits were, however, perfectly worthless and quite un- 
eatable. 
The Maltese lemons fruited well, for the first time. The fruits were of good size 
and. flavour, but the soil is very poor at the place in which these trees are planted. 
The Figs also fruited again, but scantily. 
The Gayam (Inocarpus edulis) fruited more largely this year than in previous 
years. The seeds boiled resemble chestnuts and are very good to eat. 
Gambier . — The seed, sent out the previous year as described in last year’s report, 
and stated to have failed, I have since heard, were not by any means failures in all 
cases. The Royal Gardens, Kew, raised some hundreds of young plants which were 
carried to Jamaica by Mr. MORRIS, for introduction there. Young plants were also 
sent this year to Ceylon where they appear to be thriving. 
Renghas ( Gluta renghas ). — A large number (over a thousand) seeds of this plant 
were obtained from Pahang, by the aid of Mr. Belfield. The seeds germinated 
readily and a number of plants j-aised, which are being planted put .in the Forest 
Reserves. The timber is of very fine quality, but the poisonous resin which exudes 
from the tree when broken or cut makes it a difficult plant to handle, safely. 
Billion (Eusideroxylon Zwageri ). — A number of seeds were obtained from 
Borneo and planted. Hitherto seeds received have refused to germinate though tried 
in various ways and under various conditions, but of the last lot received, a number 
have germinated and become small but healthy looking plants, their growth is very 
slow, and, like other hard-shelled fruits, seem to be quite irregular in the time they take 
for germination. The seeds are very expensive owing to the great difficulty of 
obtaining them. 
