6 
grass weeds, attacked the buds of the rubber by night preventing its growth. The result 
of this cultivation of catch-crops between the young rubber has been the extermination of 
this pest, and the growth of the young plants very satisfactory. 
The question of catch-crops for rubber has been one of the most important ones of the 
year, and is the subject of a large quantity of the garden correspondence. It is regrettable 
that the paucity of the staff prevents time being given to experiments on this subject carried 
out as they should be. 
A good deal of Colonial interest during the past two years has been taken in fibres of 
all sorts, and the plot of land opened last year has been maintained and large stocks of the 
most likely fibres for cultivation here have been raised. 
Among the most free-growing fibres as judged by its strong development of leaves is 
Sanseviera guineensis. S. zeylanica has grown well also, but is not quite so quick in 
supplying a good stock of leaves. S. sulcata and S. cylindrica have proved healthy, but, 
though furnishing the largest supply of fibre for the leaf and being the easiest to handle for 
machine work, ate unfortunately too slow as a catch-crop in this country. 
Mauritius hemp grows well in ordinary soils. Sisal hemp has been kept under observa- 
tion, but does not seem to do well ; it is essentially a plant for dry sandy loose soil. 
The Coffee and Rambong ground has been well maintained. No part of the Gardens 
is well suited to these plants, but for the purpose of meeting the demand for Rambong (Ficus 
elastica) cuttings it has been possible to produce 150 rooted cuttings by marcotting, and 
though the parents may never develope into robust plants they will serve as stock plants. 
The demand is chiefly, however, for seed and seedlings, and a strong batch of seedlings raised 
here were disposed of through the year. 
Export of Para Rubber Seed. 
15. — During the year a very large number of Para Rubber seeds and plants were sent 
out to all parts of the world, of these a large number were supplied from the Botanic 
Garden trees, others were obtained outside from various plantations and packed and 
shipped. The packing of these seeds for long distances entailed a great amount of work, as 
they had to be packed in till boxes, 150 seeds in a tin with burnt rice dust. Two tins were 
then enclosed in a canvas covering, addressed, and then sent by post, so as to avoid the seeds 
being heated in the hold. This plan has been proved eminently successful, and the 
percentage of seed that arrived safely at long distances such as Jamaica, Solomon Islands, 
West Africa, etc., has been very high. 
, The following were the localities to which the seeds were sent : — 
Seeds from the Economic Garden Trees. 
Singapore ... ... 
... 
... 15,510 
Province Wellesley and Perak ... 
... 48,950 
Selangor... 
... 80,795 
Christmas Island 
2,400 
Borneo ... 
100 
British Solomon Islands 
600 
British Guiana 
2,100 
Queensland 
150 
Philippine Islands ... .... 
0 
0 
>0 
Honolulu 
800 
Mexico ... 
900 
Sumatra ... 
2,000 
Uncertain destination 
2,800 
Total 157,605 
