Turpin, — Organographie Vegetale, presented by the Trustees of British Museum. 
Jessen. — Lebensdauer der Gewachse, presented by the Trustees of British Museum. 
Gris, — Recherches Microscopiques sur Chlorophyll, presented by the Trustees of 
British Museum. 
Richard, A. — Elements de Histoire Naturelle Medicate Bot. 11 , 111 , presented by the 
Trustees of British Museum. 
Kunze, G. — Index Filicum, presented by the Trustees of British Museum. 
Baker, J. G.— Synopsis of Selaginellas, presented by the Trustees of British 
Museum. 
Baker, J. G. — Rhizocarpeae, presented by the Trustees of British Museum. 
New Commercial Drugs. — No. xi, presented by the Trustees of British Museum. 
Prain.— Vegetation of Coco Group, presented by the Trustees of British Meseum. 
Cooke, M. C. — Index fungorum Britannic., presented by the Trustees of British 
Museum. 
Preiss. — Enumeratio Plantarum Australiae, presented by the Trustees of British 
Museum. 
Trelease. — Structures which favour Cross-fertilizatig , presented by the Trustees 
of British Museum. 
Nordlinger. — Der Holz-ring, presented by the Trustees of British Museum. 
Brandel, V. — Insect-fressende Pflanzen, presented by the Trustees of British 
Museum. 
Trelease. — A yellow Opium-mould, presented by the Trustees of British Museum. 
Mercklin. — Prothallium des Fames, presented by the Trustees of British Museum. 
Klinge. — Graminaceae et Cyperaceae Wurzeln, presented by the Trustees of Brit- 
ish Museum. 
Gaudichaud. — Recherches des Vegetaux, presented by the Trustees of British 
Museum. 
Buee. — Clove Tree in Dominica, presented by the Trustees of British Museum. 
Decaisne. — Maladie des Pommes de Terre, presented by the Trustees of British 
Museum. 
Hasskarl. — Plantse Javanicae rariores, presented by the Trustees of British 
Museum, 
Munter. — Krankheiten der Kartoffeln, presentedby the Trustees of British Museum. 
Roeiner and Schultes.— Mantissa, 1827, presented by the Trustees of British 
Museum. 
Catalogue of Plants in Hort Bog. cult, 1866, presented by the Trustees of British 
Museum. 
De Vries. — Protrepticus, presented by the Trustees of British Museum. 
Dickie. — Contributions to the Physiology of Fecundation, presented by the Trus- 
tees of British Museum, 
Todaro. — Cultivated Plants in Palermo Gardens, presented by the Trustees of 
British Museum. f 
Trimen. — German’s Ceylon Herbarium, presented by the Trustees of British Mu- 
seum. 
Von Mueller. — New Papuan Dilleniaceae, presented by the Trustees of British 
Museum. 
Von Mueller. — New Melastomaceae, presented by the Trustees of British Museum. 
Von Mueller. — New Goodeniaceae, presented by the Trustees of British Museum. 
Von Mueller. — Leguminous Trees, presented by the Trustees of British Museum. 
Von Mueller. — Descriptions and Notes on Papuan Plants, No. VIII, presented 
by the Trustees of British Museum. 
Martens. — Algae of Burma, etc., presented by the Trustees of British Museum. 
Milde. — Index Botrychiotum, presented by the Trustees of British Museum. 
Fries. — Symbolae ad Floram Daliae, presented by the Trustees of British Museum. 
Waljich.- — Hedychium, presented by the Trustees of British Museum. 
Prain. — Notes on Lokas, a new Chinese dye, presented by the Trustees of Brit- 
ish Museum. 
Ferguson. — All about Spices, purchased. 
Index Kewensis, Vol. 5, purchased. 
