ANNUAL REPORT OF THE BOTANICAL GARDENS, SINGAPORE. 
A 
W 
' • t' 
6 
Staff. 
1. The only changes in the staff were the employment of a new Plant-collector 
named Talka, in place of Mat resigned. The coco-nut trees inspection coolie was at 
first tried for this post, but proved unsatisfactory. A young Tamil lad Sahib was taken 
on as apprentice to learn gardening work, and has proved very useful, and a boy, 
Simon, was also employed as apprentice in the office. The coolies worked well, but 
there were some cases of mild beri-beri in the lines, and it will be advisable now T to 
rebuild their quarters in another spot. 
Visitors. 
2. The nunflber of visitors was as large as in past years. Many planters and 
others interested in cultivation visited the Economic gardens to inspect the various 
officinal plants. A considerable number of scientific botanists, passing through to Java, 
Ceylon or Japan, also visited the gardens. The Regimental band performed regularly 
once a month on moonlight nights, and was much appreciated. 
Prosecutions. 
3. There were a number of cases of petty theft, chiefly by mail passengers, but 
few of any importance. Three Chinese and one Malay boy were charged with taking 
flowers. One was discharged, and one escaped, the others were fined or imprisoned. 
One Chinaman was fined three dollars for cutting sago palms,* and one Indian was 
fined for injuring a python by striking it with a stick. 
Flower show. 
4. A very successsful exhibition of flowers and flowering shrubs was held in the 
Town Hall in March. It was remarkable for the exceptionally good show of orchids. 
Large foliage plants and fruits and vegetables were excluded, and the exhibition was 
especially one of flowers. 
Bulletin : 
5. A bulletin dealing with vegetables, shade trees, poisonous plants, Sugar 
cane, seedlings, and other subjects was published. 
Aviaries. 
6. The following animals were added to the collection : — One Semnopithecus sp. 
purchased ; one other (Aonyx leptonyx) caught in Singapore, purchased ; two Kijangs 
{Cervulus muntjac) were born, one in April, the other in September ; the latter, however, 
died next day. One hybrid ape was born. Three Thalaugers ( Trichosurus Vulpe- 
cula) one of which produced a young one, presented by Mr. Hall; one kangaroo rat 
presented ; four black swans presented by Mr. Le Souef. Two whistling teal pre- 
sented by Mr. Dare ; one A 7 eops malayanus presented by Capt. H.TalboY; one 
seagull presented by Capt. H. TalbOY; one Australian parrot presented by Mrs. 
Hunter ; two black storks Xenorhyncus asiaticus from Pahang purchased ; one 
horsfield’s eagle purchased ; six flamingos, 8 ducks and 2 gulls presented by Mr. Dixon 
of Cairo. The flamingos did not thrive and three were killed by large water tortoises, 
(Trionyx). The other water-fowl hardly survived the journey except one gull. Two 
pelicans, deposited ; one cobra and some green vipers ( Lachesis waglen ) were cap- 
tured and one of the latter produced nine living young. A rare tortoise Daimonia 
subtrijuga from Siam presented by Mr. Flower ; two large water tortoises (Trionyx 
cartilagineus ) were caught in the lake in a trap. 
Wl 
/! ofe 
