21 
43. Croton oil (Croton tiglium) grows freely and fruits abundantly. 
44. Annatto (Bixa orellana ) grows vigorously, and is deserving of a trial on 
a large scale. 
45. Black pepper (Piper nigrum) grows well in the Settlement, and might be 
more extensively cultivated to advantage. 
46. Cubebs (Piper cubeba) promise well, and are being propagated as largely 
as possible. 
47. Maltese oranges and lemons.— The lemons have grown well and are now 
dowering. 
48. Mahogany (Swietenia mahogani) .—Seeds were received from Kew in 
1886. The plants have grown well, and many are now ten feet high. Unfortunately, 
few are free from the ravages of ants. 
49. Two species of Eucalypti have grown with remarkable vigour, and it would 
be interesting to try these valuable trees on a larger scale. 
50. From a sample of Liberian coffee observed to be growing well in the Settle- 
ment, and sent to the Kew authorities for report, the London Brokers to whom the 
sample was submitted, declared it to be the finest sample of Liberian coffee ever seen 
in the London market. 
Roads and Drains. 
51. The main drive through the Garden (from the Garden boundary to the 
Batu Berendan Road) has been widened and maintained, and now admits of a drive 
through the extent of the Garden. . 
52. A road, 500 yards in length, has been opened to the Assistant Superintend- 
ent’s quarters. 
Formation. 
53 In July, a supplementary vote of $[,000 and in October a further vote of 
$200 was sanctioned, for digging a lake, and levelling the adjoining grounds. 
54. The excavations were continued to the end of the year, and 5 *°°° cubical 
yards of earth were removed. 
55. A dam remains to be constructed, and a vote will be required for the work, 
which should be completed as early as possible, as an abundant water supply close at 
hand is absolutely necessary. 
<6 It may be mentioned that the rainfall for the first four months of the year, 
taking the average for that time from 1883-86, amounts only to 3.60 inches monthly. 
Much labour is now lost through fetching water from long distances. 
Assistant Superintendent's Quarters. 
57. Quarters for the Assistant Superintendent were completed at the end of 
August, and occupied on the first of September. 
58. A statement of Expenditure is appended in Appendix B, and of Revenue 
collected in Appendix C. 
R. DERRY, 
Assistant Superintendent of Forests. 
Malacca, nth February, 1889. 
