24 
Bukit Bruang Reserve. 
101. The boundaries of the reserve have been re-cleared, and the swamps 
bridged, and a path has been made over the highest spur. On some waste land 
1,099 trees of different kinds, chiefly Merebau, Bintangor^hampedak, have been 
planted. And on the adjoining swamp a clearing has been commenced for the culture 
of sago. Three acres have been cleared, the soil thrown into ridges and 45 sa$> 
cuttings planted. 
Sungei Udang Reserve. 
102. The boundaries having become overgrown have been cleared by the 
watchmen with the aid of a gang or- six coolies. Fifteen miles of boundaries have 
been put in order, and six miles of inspection-paths opened. The central compart- 
ment has been divided into blocks by the inspection-paths. About a mile remains 
to be done. 
Merlemau Reserve. 
103. The western boundary, two miles long, has been opened during the year, 
and an inspection path, two miles long, has also been opened. The southern bounda- 
ries running westwards and those west of the Chin-Chin Road are in good order, and 
where swampy made passable. The eastern swampy boundaries remain to be ren- 
dered passable, and the demarcation of the western compartment into blocks is 
requisite in order to make a valuation survey. This will be done in the ensuing year. 
Ayer Panas Reserve. 
104. The boundary of the new reserve has been maintained by the watchmen 
and an inspection-path opened by a band of coolies for three-quarters of a mile. 
Bukit Panchor. 
105. The maintenance of the boundaries here is very heavy owing to the large 
extent of lalang and swamp. All the boundaries, eleven miles in extent, have been 
cleared and put in order, a band of coolies having been employed from the end of 
October to December on them. Some timber has been supplied for building Govern- 
ment quarters from this reserve. 
Brisu Reserve. 
106. The demarcation of private properties, and of an extension of the reserve 
occupied most of the time of the watchmen, with the addition of some coolies. The 
extension consists of the addition of 1,000 acres situated between the Brisu and 
Sungei Slput main road and the frontier between Bukit Jelutong and Bukit Putus. 
It is well wooded and includes some large timber, especially near the frontier, 
Serayah and Meranti being most abundant. 
Jus District. 
107. The reserves have been divided into three here, viz., Bukit Sadanan, Bukit 
Batu Tiga, and Batang Malaka ; of these the former has been completely demarcated 
and the second commenced. 
Bukit Sadanan Reserve. 
108. Lies between the districts of Machap, Tebung, Batang Malaka and Selan- 
dar, and comprises about 9,000 acres. It is undulating, well watered and for the 
most part is exceedingly well wooded with fine timber and a considerable number 
of rattans. The highest point (Bukit Sadanan) is 1,094 feet altitude. On the 
western side the reserve is demarcated by the Machap-Tebung Road, on the 
eastern by the Batang Malaka and Selandar Road. The north and south bounda- 
ries have been demarcated. 
The most valuable timbers here are: — Seraya ( Hopea cernua ), Gombang 
(Dipterocarpus crinitus), Meranti ( Hopea meranti ), Kayu Klat Merah ( Eugenia 
sp.), all abundant; Kayu Minyak ( Dipterocarpus Icevis), Tembusu ( Fagrea 
fragrans ), Kambang Sa’mangko, Jelutong, Berombong, Penaga, Kempas, Rambei 
Daun ( Shorea acuminata ), fairly abundant; Merebau, Resak, Petaling, Kranji, 
Bilian Wangi, rare. 
* 
