4 
Carleton, F. A. — Cereal diseases of the United States, * 
Galloway, B. T. — Potato diseases and their treatment, * 
j New Spraying Devices, * 
Loew', O. — Cigar leaf tobacco, * 
Murray, John — General conditions of existence and distribution of Marine 
organisms, t 
Gage. S. H. — Processes cf life revealed by the Microscope, t 
Gill, Theo. — Some questions of Nomenclature, t 
Schweinitz, E. A. — War with the Microbes, f 
Huffaker, E. C. — Soaring Flight, f 
Miall, L. C. — Life History studies of Animals, t 
Hamy, E. T. — Royal Menagerie of France, f 
Thayer, A. T. — The law which underlies protective coloration, t 
De Haan, J. V. B. — Mededeeling — Tabak’s Aaltje, t 
Bijlert, Dr. A. V. — -Oenderzoek van Deli Tabak, + 
Kramers, J. G. — Andere Mededeeling over Koffie, t 
Cameron, J. — Report of a visit to Coorg, X 
Moore, C. — Census of plants of New South Wales, X 
Wilde man, E. de, and Durand, I h. — Illustrations de la Flore de Congo., J 
,, Flore Algologique, X 
,, Annales de Musee de Congo, % 
Gandoger, M. -Flora Europae, 27 vols., § 
Jt Flore Lyonnaise, § 
Rosae novse, § 
v Essai Nouvelle classilication des Roses. § 
,, Decades Plantarum Novarum, § 
Tabulae Rhodologicse, § 
Sebire, R. P. A.— Plantes utiles de Senegal, || 
Clouth, Fr. — Gummi Gutta percha and Ralata, || 
Massee, G. — Text book of Plant diseases, |j 
Dyer, Sir W. T. T.— Dipterocarpese, |[ 
Hegelmaier, F. — Monographische Untersuching der Lemnaceen, || 
Collingwood, L. C. — Nutmeg and other cultivation in Singapore, _ || 
C pgni.au x and Goossens — Dictionnaire Iconographique des Orchidees ( continua- 
tion }. 
Also the following publications were presented to the Library by the Various- 
Gardens and Institutions which publish them. Indian Museum Notes, Tropen- 
pflanzen, Chemist and Druggist Agricultural Ledger, Planting Opinion, Report of the 
Secretary of Agriculture of the United States, Experimental Station Records, Experi- 
mental Farm Reports, Ottawa Transactions of the Botanic Society, Edinburgh, 
Annual Reports of the Botanic Gardens of West Australia, Missouri^ Queensland, 
Old Calabar New South Wales, Queensland Acclimatization Society, Jamaica, South 
Australia, Mysore, Calcutta, Grenada, Trinidad, Hongkong, Forest Reports of Madras, 
British Guiana, Ceylon, Zanzibar, Victoria Zoological Acclimatization Society, Notiz- 
biatt of the Botanic Gardens, Berlin, Bulletin Economique de V Indo-China, Botanic 
Museum Haarlem. Year book of the U. S. A. Department of Agriculture. Reports 
of the Botanic Survey of India, Perak Museum Notes, Calcutta Gardening Circular, 
Forester of U. S. America* leones Bogorienses, Bulletin of Buitenzorg, Journal of 
Agriculture of Zanzibar and Cape of Good Hope, Journal of the Board of Agriculture, 
Kew Bulletin, leones Plantarum . Merck’s Digests, Report of Selangor Forest Depart- 
ment, Perak Museum Notes, Report of Selangor Planters Association. Ceylon, 
Jamaica and Trinidad Bulletins, Annals of the Botanic Gardens, Buitenzorg. Journal 
of the Linn can Society. 
While the following journals were purchased as usual : — Botanical Magazine,. 
Tropical Agriculturist, Gardener’s Chronicle. 
Economic Gardens. 
11. A considerable space of ground on the top of the central hill was cleared 
and dug over for planting gutta percha, and it was planted in part with guttapercha, 
a row of Suntai Bassici "sp. fr&m Sumatra which produces an interior Gutta and a 
number of plants of Saigon Gutta. Dichopsi's Krantziana , almost all are growing well. 
It was found advisable to make a cart roacl through the Garden, as the present 
roads are too narrow for carts to go safely through, whe n finish e d it wil l also make 
* Presented by the Department of Agriculture, U. S. A. 
f Presented by the Smithsonian Institute 
X Presented by the Author. 
§ Received in exchange. 
|| Purchased. 
