6 
hive been since planted out in the Garden, and in the Bukit 1 imah forest reserve, 
\ very lar<*e proportion did not grow, and those that did were very irregular in the 
time of growth, some struck almost at once, others delayed for nearly a year 
Enquiries elicited the fact that a considerable proportion had been cut no less than 
seven months previously, and kept dry all that time. Those that had been cut only 
two or three months previously grew readily. Among those that came up r was 
noticed that there were not only Dichopsis oblongifolia, but also D. cal op hy a n 
as Niatoh Waringin in Borneo, a very handsome plant stated to supply J 
superior gutta. This species seems to grow better and faster than D.oblo g f ■ 
There was also a plant of Getak Sundik, Payena Leeru, the white Gutta percha 
which grew very rapidly. A number of cuttings of D. oblongtfoha were also presented 
to the Gardens by Mr. PEARS of Muar, which seem likely to do well. ^ 
able that owing to the difficulty of procuring seed, the system of gro g 
cuttings will be°the most suitable system for cultivation. It is noticed that the small 
and thin cuttings either do not strike or if they do throw up shoots they soon wither 
off. The shoots often attain considerable growth before any roots appear on the 
cuttings, and frequently quite a bushy little plant has only one or two very 1 
lets. This slow development of roots probably accounts for the damping 
apparently strong plants on their being planted out. 
Plant diseases. 
16. I visited in the spring the districts in Selangor which were affected by the 
plague of the Coffee caterpillar Cc-phonodes Hylas and and trvmg 
for a few days examining into the life history and habrts >"»«** 
exoeriments on it. These investigations with those made by Mr. A. L. BUTLER will b. 
described in a Bulletin now in course of printing A number oOnjunoMmsects wer . 
sent to the British Museum for ident.ficat.on, and were named by ^ WWERHOUSB, 
they included the Banana Weevils, Sphenophorus sordidus, Rose sawfly H. vle.mus 
Victoria; and others of which accounts are being printed in the New Bulletin. 
A very injurious fungus was found attacking the roots of a fig-tree m one of the 
shrubberies. It spreads all through the ground and destroyed almost every plant for 
considerable distance round the tree. Specimens sent to Kew w .« re r ^ d ^ 
a species of Rosellinia , a genus of most deadly root-fungi. The diseased plains v e 
dug up, and all roots, twigs, etc., affected burnt, the ground was dug over and Unhand 
copper sulphate (Bordeaux mixture) freely applied, which arrested the 'growth i of the 
fungus and quite exterminated it. Bordeaux mixture was also used on .Clown trees 
suffering from a leaf-fungus, the trees being syringed with the solution, with excellent 
results. _ , a _ 
Vote for Economic Gardens #2,200.00 
Expenditure : — 
Salaries ... 
Manure ... 
Pots and Tubs 
Ataps, lime and bricks 
Tools 
Balance ... 
|i. 857 - 7 2 
59-65 
69.60 
25.00 
I4I.89 
46.14 
$ 2 , 200.00 
Forestry. 
17. 1 visited Penang and the Dindings in the spring, and inspected the forest 
reserves in part in both places. In December, while in Malacca, 1 inspected the Gar- 
dens at the Ayer Keroh Reservoir, and went over much of the ground which has been 
marked** out for the planting of Gutta percha and India rubber. 1 he various plants 
in the Gardens, mostly sent from the Singapore Gardens are growing with remarkable 
vigour, chiefly noticeable are the Para-rubber, Ficus elastica and Ceara-rubber. the 
soil here is gravelly and dry and seems to suit this latter plant very well. It grew 
absolutely faster than the Para-rubber, and there were one year old trees 10 or 12 
feet tall with a stem three inches through at the base. Its latex seemed rich nv 
rubber, and it may prove an useful cultural plant in dry upland gravelly places 
where little else will grow. Ficus elastica was also very thnving, and this plant *s 
becoming, I am informed, popular with the Chinese. The Hon’ble Resident Coun- 
cillor showed me an excellent sample of rubber taken by Chinese from three year o Id- 
trees. The country round the waterworks formerly covered to a large extent with 
