like. A new office of brick and plaster was built in the Economic Gardens, for the 
Assistant in charge of this part of the Gardens. It measures 20' X 14 X 12' and cost 
$800. Two latrines for visitors were built of brick in the shrubbery where the 
animal cages formerly were, size of building 12' X 8' X 6\ In the Coolie Lines the 
drains were bricked for a length of 780 feet, viz., 346' X 12" X 10", 82' X 14" X 14", 
250' X 8" X 12") several silt tanks were built and the wells were repaired, the build- 
ings of the Coolie Lines and Policemen’s quarters were partially reattaped, and others 
were repaired and an extra room was built on to the Artist's quarters. The well in 
the nursery was redug, bricked and cemented. 
The wooden floor of the Gardens Office was removed and the ground filled in and 
covered with cement and concrete by the Public Works Lepartment. This had 
proved necessary on account of the persistent attacks of termites which invaded the 
office during the night and nearly destroyed the books and papers in the office. 
Roads and Drives, Beds, Etc. 
All the roads in the Upper Gardens were re-gravelled and repaired where 
necessary. The lower circle path round the band-stand was relaid with laterite. Two 
new rollers were purchased for this work. 
The lake was cleaned of waterweeds on several occasions and some hundreds of 
loads of silt and mud were taken out of the upper end in April and banked up on the 
side being kept in place by piles, and a large cement tank 4' X 4 — 6" X4' was built 
to receive the silt brought down in rain storms from Garden Road and Tyersall Road, 
As this silt is brought down from the mainroads into the Garden the Municipality was 
asked to take steps to turn the road drains from the Gardens, but nothing effective 
was done. 
Side drains, the bricking and repairing of the side drains all over the Gardens was 
pushed on and a large number of the remaining earth drains were bricked. In all, 917 
yards of brick drain were laid down in the Upper Gardens. Catch ‘tanks were also 
built where necessary. 
New or Noteworthy Plants. 
The following plants of interest flowered for the first time in the Gardens : — 
Dendrobium Lankawiense. — Lankawi. 
Do. pachyglossum. — Perak. 
Bulbophyllum variabile. — Perak. 
Coelogyne carnea. — Perak. 
Wallichia disticha. — India. 
Dssdalacanthus parvus. — India. 
Begonia paupercula. — Selangor. 
Burbidgea schisocheila. — Borneo. (Flowered and fruited. The fruits of this 
genus were not previously known.) 
Baryxylum rufum. — Saigon. 
Dendrocolla N., sp . — Manila. , 
Wormia meliosmos folia . — Malacca. 
Geodorum pulchellum N. sp . — Siam. 
Dendrobium sp. — Philippines. 
Sterculia alata . — India. 
Ceropegia Woodii . — Natal. 
Cyperus papyrus . — Africa. 
Glo ri osa rothsch ildi ana . — A f rica. 
Urginia micrantha . — Africa. 
Kicksia africana . — Africa. Flowered and fruited. 
Cotyledon pachyphyllum. 
Caryocar nuciferum. 
Hibiscus Californicus . — North America. 
Dichorisandra aubletian a var persicarioefoltum . — South America, 
