6 
1 7. A large number of Liberian coffee plants were raised from seeds ripened 
in Perak, some of which have been planted in the Dindings. Plants were offered free 
of cost to the Malays and Achinese in the neighbourhood, but they did not avail 
themselves to the extent that is to be desired. 
18. A few pepper plants put out in 1885 were bearing a good crop of fruit at 
the end of the year, but there is nO necessity for experimenting w r ith this, as its culti- 
vation is thoroughly established at Ara Kuda, from whence thousands of cuttings and 
plants are now sold to the Native States. 
19. One thousand eight hundred and twenty (1,820) trees for planting the road- 
sides in Province Wellesley have been supplied from this nursery during the year. 
Ill . — Hill Nursery and Bungalow Garden. 
20. * The special grant of $1,000 for the improvement of the Bungalow Garden 
admitted of much necessary work being done. The working of the nursery and 
garden together, instead of from separate votes as in previous years, is also an 
advantage. 
21. The top of Gun Hill has been cleared, levelled, and laid out as tastefully 
as the site would admit. A rustic summer-house, and a temporary plant shed, have 
been erected, and the latter filled with plants requiring a lower temperature than is 
obtainable in other gardens. Most of the Cattley as, Odontoglossums, Rhododendrons, 
&c., have been removed to this shed, as being not only cooler, but easier of access 
to persons occupying the bungalows. 
22. The “ Round,” near the entrance to the Convalescent Bungalow, has been 
cut down six feet, and the area of the site enlarged with the soil removed. Grevillia 
robusta and Juniperus virginiana have been planted around the outer edge, and this 
site is now available for tennis, &c. 
23. The approach to the Convalescent Bungalow, which was in an untidy condi- 
tion, has been cleared, dug over, sloped and turfed. 
24. The long continuous flower beds on the terraces have been broken up into 
irregular groups, and entirely re-planted, the intervening spaces being turfed. 
25. The rose beds have been deeply trenched, and, as far as possible, re-planted 
with grafted or budded plants propagated on the spot, and these are doing much 
better than plants on their own roots. Many new varieties have been introduced 
from Calcutta, and it is hoped that by the end of another year the garden will be well 
stocked with young thriving plants. 
26. The area available for vegetable cultivation has been greatly extended during 
the year, by cutting away the jungle and forming additional terraces. The cultiva- 
tion of vegetables will, in future, be principally confined to this garden as it is in close 
proximity to the stables and piggery, the latter having been put up for the express 
purpose of obtaining manure. 
27. The five pigs purchased in December, 1887, have increased during the year 
to twenty-one; the total cost of food being $76.01. 
28. The general up-keep of roads, paths, &c., always an important item where 
the rainfall is heavy as in Penang, has been well attended to by Mr. Chandler, as 
well as the supervision of coolies employed on the various improvements already de- 
tailed. It is to be regretted that this Officer is leaving, as it takes at least a year for 
a man with no previous experience of working coolies or gardening, to acquire the 
knowledge necessary .for carrying on the work economically and expeditiously. 
29. The capabilities of this garden have never been fully developed, no one 
with a practical knowledge of the cultivation of plants having been stationed on the 
spot, and the Officers appointed to the post of Signal Sergeant leave, or are removed, 
by the time they begin to take an interest in this subject. 
30. In the Experimental Nursery there has been a greater amount of fever than 
usual among the men employed, and very frequent changes. 
31. Since the promotion of Mr. P. NlEUKEY to the post of Overseer, Waterfall 
Garden, in June last, no competent man has been in charge of this nursery. Appli- 
cations were made to the Singapore and Calcutta Botanic Gardens, but in neither case 
could a man be spared. An advertisement was then inserted in the local newspaper, 
but the applicants were none of them of the class to be desired. Eventually a Ceylon 
man, whose testimonials as to general character were satisfactory, but with no previ- 
ous knowledge of garden work, was taken on probation, but during the absence on 
leave of the Assistant Superintendent in November he left under the plea of ill- 
health. 
