Annual Report/on the Botanic Gardens, Singapore, 
FOR THE YEAR 1 888. 
Introduction. 
i. The various changes in the staff during the past year, together with the fact 
that 1 did not arrive in the Colony till the close of the year, prevents the Report from 
being as full as it otherwise would have been. 
The late Mr. Cantley took leave of absence on account of ill-health in Decem- 
ber, 1887, and the charge of the Gardens was taken by Mr. Derry, Assistant Superin- 
tendent of Forests, Malacca, while Mr. Fox was still absent from the Colony on 
leave. Mr. Fox returned in April, 1888, and superintehded the Gardens till my 
arrival in November. 
Visitors. 
2. The number of visitors to the Gardens increasedtsomewhat last year, the 
greatest number being noticed on Mail days and Sunday aff^n-oons-. 
The Band of the 82nd Regiment performed as usuMvon moonlight nights, 
and was much appreciated by the general public, as evidenced by their attendance 
in large numbers. 
Flower Beds. 
3. The flower beds around the band-stand have been replanted from time to 
time, and have been kept bright with coloured foliage plants. The beds below the 
terrace, formerly occupied by rose plants, have been entirely replanted with other 
kinds of flowering plants, as the roses, from cutting, had become somewhat unsightly. 
It is intended, however, to replant the roses when a sufficient stock has been obtained 
and made available. The flower bed design on the site of the old aviaries, formerly 
planted with English annuals, has been converted into a bulb garden. This has been 
most successful, as at all times a number of the plants are in flower. The most flori- 
ferous of these seem to be Crinnm asiaticum and C. seylanmum , the tuberose 
(/'olianthes Tuberosa), several Hippeastrums , and Zephyranthes. From the Bulb 
Garden to the entrance to the Fernery a border has been made and planted with 
shade-loving plants, such as Carinas, Alpinias, Calatheas, etc., all of which seem 
likely to do well, although at the end of the year they were much injured by a small 
species of beetle which devoured the leaves at night. 
Plant Borders. 
4. The plant borders fringing the carriage-drive leading from the band-stand 
to Garden Road, have been replanted and manured. The mounds at the end of the 
lake, originally intended for a Rock Garden, have been covered with suitable plants, 
which have grown rapidly and well. Plant borders have also been made along the 
two sides of the manure tank, so as to screen it as much as possible from view. 
Lakes. 
5. The main lake has been cleared of weeds and rubbish from time to 
time. The Committee have authorised the purchase of a small boat, which 
will be very useful, not only in clearing the weeds in otherwise inaccessible 
spots, but also in replanting the island. A large lizard ( Hydrosaurus salvator ) 
haunted the lake for part of the year, and did much damage to the water- 
fowl. It has since been captured and destroyed. The upper end of the lake, 
where the stream comes in, requires planting, and will be a very suitable place to 
cultivate some of the Eichornias , Sagittarias and other beautiful semi-aquatics. The 
Nymphea pond was thoroughly cleansed in 1887, some hundreds of cart-loads of 
mud being taken from it, so* that during the past year the water lilies have grown 
and flowered well. I look forward to making this very interesting, by introducing some 
of the best of the indigenous aquatics, as well as some from Brazil and other distant 
countries. The Victoria Regia lily has grown and flowered well. 
