9 
Library and Herbarium. 
The whole of the Herbarium specimens were gone over and poisoned and 
restrapped where necessary. The excessive rainfall necessitated the daily use of 
charcoal fires to keep out the damp. Duplicates of the division of the apetalse 
comprising 29 natural orders, were forwarded to Mr. Gamble at Kew in connection 
with the flora of the Peninsula. 197 sheets of specimens were presented by the 
Superintendent of the Royal Gardens, Calcutta, and various types were sent to the 
Director of Gardens for comparison. By the kindness of Mr. Barnard, Deputy 
Conservator of Forests, I was able to send the Overseer to accompany him on a 
collecting trip to Gunong Kerbau, a mountain some 7,000 feet high on the borders of 
Kelantan. The herbarium specimens collected were poor owing to few things being 
in flower at the time, but a few interesting live plants were obtained. 
The usual periodicals were received. Thanks are due to the Government of India 
for the presentation of Volume XI, Parts 1 and 2, of the “Annals of the Botanic 
Gardens, Calcutta/' The following were also presented “ Journal and Proceedings 
of the Asiatic Society of Bengal,” Volume LXXIV, Parts 2 and 3 : The “ Kyoto 
Imperial University Calendar:” “Trees and Shrubs” by Professor SARGENT: and 
various Annual Reports of the Botanic Gardens and Forests. 
Sale of Plants. 
The nursery made last year has been useful to the extent of supplying 1,547 plants 
for sale. It is at present fully stocked with a mixed collection of plants useful for 
planting out and for sale. 
Para Rubber. 
The success of this marvellous product reached a height little dreamt of a few 
years ago, prices well over 9/- per pound being realized. The result has been one of 
eagerness to turn any piece of ground into a rubber plantation; and the number of 
these irregular plantations is surprising; especially is this so in Kedah, where many of 
the Estates formerly under tapioca are now exclusively or partly planted up with 
rubber. On the invitation of Mr. Nathan, District Officer, Balik Pulau, I visited his 
District and gave a field lecture and demonstration on the best methods of tapping 
rubbef trees. The many squatters who attended have more or less planted up their 
holdings with para rubber, and from the questions asked, and the keen interest they 
showed in what I said, proved how greatly they were interested in this cultivation. 
The old tree in the Gardens was tapped during the year and yielded 8 pounds and 
4 ounces making the total yi$ld, since the first tapping in 1885, 52 pounds and 6 ounces- 
A small parcel of rubber was sent home in October, but as the sales were unfavourable 
at the time, the Brokers held for the next sale, consequently the account sales will only 
appear this year, 1910. They further suggested keeping our supplies till the}' reached 
at least 2 cvvt. I anticipate that during the next few months a sufficient sum wall be 
realized to liquidate the loan advanced by the Treasury to purchase the Nursery site 
in 1906. 
Governor’s Hill Gardens. 
These have been maintained in good order during the year/the very heavy rainfall 
has been against them. The hon’ble Resident Councillor presented 40 rose plants 
which I ordered for him from Messrs. CHATTERJEE of Calcutta, these have been 
planted out and should in time replace those that are old and worn out. 
Coconut Trees Preservation. 
I append returns showing that in Penang 331 notices were served calling on owners 
to destroy 480 dead coconut trees, 332 trunks, 12 heaps of manure and refuse. There 
were five cases of prosecution which resulted in small fines amounting to $10. It is 
worthy of note that 60 of the 480 dead trees are supposed to have been killed by 
lightning. 
In the Province the Inspector reports that the Districts of Simpang Ampat, 
Matang Tinggi, and Jungong were most attacked during the year, Malakoff Estate 
was badly attacked by the larvae of a small moth. For a few months the trees presented 
the appearance of having been burnt. They eventually recovered and now' appear 
little the worse for their attack. During the attack I twice visited the estate and 
suggested remedial measures. In the Province 303 notices were issued to destroy 
749 dead trees, 1,077 trunks* six heaps of manure and rubbish. There were six 
prosecutions with small fines amounting to $8. 
W. FOX, 
Superintendent of Fores' s and Gard ens, Wenang. 
