5 
Buiteuzorg Bulletin, West Indian Bulletin, Revue des Cultures Coloniales, Acta 
Horti Petropolitanic Transactions of the Botanical Society of Edinburg an “rccn 
and Forest Reports of South Australia, Queensland, Barbados, Trinidad, Myso e. 
Ceylon, Hongkong, British Guiana, Natal, Madras (horest Department), Calcutta. 
Tenasserim Agrihorticultural Society. 
Purchased. — Journal of the Royal Horticultural Society, 14 volumes. Gardener s 
Chronicle Botanical Magazine. Journal of the Linnean Society. Tropical Agricul- 
turist. Dictionnairc Iconographifjue des Orchidees for the year. 
Bulletins. 
A bulletin dealing with Native Rubbers Insect Pests including the outbreak of 
the bee-hawk moth in Selangor, Kickxia Africana, notes on Para Rubber, injurious 
fungi and other subjects was published in May. A paper on Dammars and Wood-oils, 
was prepared and printed in the Journal of the Straits Asiatic Society. Another bulletin 
on the Timbers of the Malay Peninsula was prepared and will be printed in the 
following year. 
Expeditions. 
In the early part of the year I accompanied Mr. H. C. MILL in his tour of inspec- 
tion in the Colony, and in November made a botanical expedition to Batu Pahat in 
Tohore, Arriving" there on October 31st, and remaining till November 18th. During 
this time I explored the hills, Gunong Banang, Pengaram and Soga, and ascended 
the rivers Sempang Kiri and Sempang Kanan, ascending the latter as far as Tebing 
Tinggi for two days, and exploring also the rocks at the mouth of the Batu Pahat 
River at Bata. Although the collector l took with me was ill and almost useless the 
whole time 1 obtained a large series of plants from this hitherto unexplored district, 
including many new and rare plants. The highest hill in this district is Gunong 
Banang, 1,500 feet, and I had expected to find a flora resembling at lea.st the lower 
part of Mount Ophir, but there were but few hill forms to be met with. The most strik- 
ing tree was a very tall Podocarpus , evidently the same species as the one on Mount 
Ophir but attaining a very large size. A new Broniheadia y Sonefila, and a number 
of other small plants were obtained here, but the flora was much less rich and 
striking than that of Gunong Panti, a hill of no greater size on the west of the 
Peninsula. The general aspect of the flora of this district is that of Singapore with 
however a number of additional forms, and the remarkable absence of others. This 
is a great contrast to the flora of Eastern Johore which resembles that of Pahang. 
In fact the Flora of the Peninsula may be said to be divided into two by a line 
running down the centre of the Peninsula. 
Besides herbarium specimens, a number of living plants, orchids, etc., and a. 
very fine Tortoise Testudo Emys captured at Batu Pahat were brought to Singapore. 
