IO 
FOREST RESERVES IN SINGAPORE. 
Area. 
1 8. The total area of Forest Reserves now in Singapore amounts to 12,965 
acres 1 rood. This increase upon the last year’s record is partly due to a revised 
survey of the forests, for the only addition is that of the Upper Tanglin Reserve, 
4! acres. • 
It was found on examining the boundaries of several reserves that they had 
been quite incorrectly opened by the Surveyors. It was, therefore, necessary to 
have the whole work re-done. The following were found incorrect: — Ang Mo Kio, 
Chan Chu Kang, Sembawang, Bukit Timah, Kranji, Bakau, Tuas, Murei and Pandan. 
All these have been re-surveyed, and boundary paths corrected. 
Boundaries. 
19. The boundary paths of the reserves have been kept in good order, cleared 
of weeds, and the streams bridged, and constantly inspected by the Forest Overseer 
and by myself. 
Reserves. 
20. In the Bukit Mandi and Sembawang Reserve, a large pepper encroach- 
ment was found, and the owner prosecuted. The crops were sold for $60, and the 
owner, who purchased them, agreed to protect the trees which were planted among 
the pepper, and to keep the whole clear of lalang till the crops should be ripe. The 
spot is now planted thickly with many young trees, including 1,095 Para Rubber, 
100 Bintangor, 50 Coco-plum, 50 Csesalpinias, 20 Terminalia Catappa, 30 Aleurites, 
400 Jambu Ayer Laut {Eugenia densiflor a). Most are doing well, and the ground — five 
acres — will soon be well covered. 
In the Bukit Timah Nursery many Arnotto and Croton Oil seeds were planted. 
These came up very well, and have been planted into the surrounding waste lands to 
combat the lalang, against which they are making some headway. 
Present State of the Reserves. 
21. It is now worth while to examine into the timber trees occurring in the 
various reserves, in order to know what their future may be. 
Bukit Timah. — This consists of a patch of very good virgin forest containing * 
Bilian Wangi, Kranji, Meranti, Bintangor, Getah Taban, Rengas, Mahang, and trees 
of less value, and a large extent of lalang and secondary forest. 
Pandan. — Consists of lalang and brush-wood, a certain amount of mangrove 
swamp and a very narrow strip of forest, abutting on the Tanjong Penjuru village 
and the Jurong village known as Ayer Terjun. 
Jurong. — One-third of this is good forest land, but the remainder is lalang and 
brushwood, and a very large low swamp covered thickly with razor grass ( Scleria 
sumatrana). 
Bukit Mandi. — Of this one-third is composed of forest containing Bintangor, 
Meranti, Brangan Babi, Brangan Papan, Kayu Klat, Mahang, Truntang, Pala Hutam 
Damar, Rengas, and other trees of more or less value. The remainder is lalang and 
brushwood. 
Sembawang.— Two-thirds of this is composed of lalang and brushwood and second- 
ary forest, the remainder is good swampy jungle. The best trees here are Bintangor, 
Rengas, Kayu Klat Puteh, Brangan Babi. 
Kranji. — Contains a little swampy forest land, but the bulk is mangrove swamp. 
This is apparently very old swamp, and is remarkable for being exceedingly prolific 
in orchids, most of the native epiphytic species occurring here. 
Sungei Buluh. — Consists entirely of mangrove swamp. 
Chan Chu Kang.— About half is very good forest land, the rest lalang, brushwood 
and secondary forest. 
Seletar. — One-eighth of this consists of good fores*, the rest is lalang, mangrove 
and swampy jungle. 
Ang Mo Kio. — About one-half is good swampy jungle, the rest lalang and brush- 
wood. 
Changi. — This large reserve consists chiefly of lalang and brushwood, one-third < 
only being forest land, consisting of Brangan, Meranti, Kledang, Samah, Rengas, and 
other trees. This land is very sandy and hot, so that it will be difficult to plant up, 
but many young Rengas trees can be removed to better reserves. 
