2 
The contributors were: — 
Dr. Rabe. 
Mr. Meikle. ^ 
Mr. G. Penney. * 
Prof. Cornu. 
Right Reverend Bishop Hose. 
Mr. T. H. Tressider. 
Mr. E. Buttikofer. 
Mr. Micholitz. 
Mr. Chatter] ee. 
Mr. St. V. B. Down. 
Messrs. Daramann. 
Mr, Pereira. 
Mr. Schalz. 
Mr. F. Pears. 
Mr. C. Baxendale. 
Mr. Robert Little. 
Mr. Bluntschli. 
Mr. Derry. 
Mr. Gooden ough. 
.and the Botanic Gardens of Saharunpur, Nagpur, Calcutta, Tokio, Saigon, Jamaica, 
Trinidad, British Guiana, Brisbane, Adelaide, Sydney, Melbourne, Cape Town, Berlin 
and Kevv. 
Messrs. Carter also supplied as usual the flowering Annuals. 
Of ornamental or interesting plants, 156 packets of seeds and 114 plants were 
sent out to various gardens and private persons in exchange, and a considerable 
number were also purchased by residents, passengers, and others. I he chief demand 
at present is for palms, of which a large stock has to be kept up to supply the demand. 
Plants and seeds were sent to the gardens of Kew, Calcutta, Saigon, Brisbane, 
Ruitenzorg, Peradeniya, Old Calabar," West Australia, Edinburgh, Melbourne, also 
to Messrs. LOHER, ChATTERJEE, DaMMANN and WALTER. 
Plants in Flower. 
6. The following were among the more interesting of the plants which flowered 
for the first time in the Gardens, Bauhinia Vahlii (India) Grias cauliflora, the anchovy 
pear (West Indies) Begonia sinuata (Penang) Begonia sp. tuberous-rooted (Lankawi) 
Plumiera acuminata (South America) Adina ruhescens (Singapore) Taberncemontana 
crassa (West Africa) Ceropegia lucida (Penang) Sarcanthus rostellatus n.sp. (Perak) 
Coelogyne uniflora (Assam) Tainia fuscoviridis' (Assam) Cost us p ictus (South’ 
America), C. globosus (Singapore) Ludovia crenata (South America) Musa violascens 
(Selangor). Tupistra grandis n.sp. (Perak) Raphia rujfia (Madagascar) Anthurium 
strict um (South America) Aglaonema vittatum n.sp. (Sumatra) Amor pho phallus 
Titanum (Sumatra). Bowenia spectabilis (Australia). 
Upkeep and Buildings. 
7. The borders, beds and shrubberies were cleaned and replanted, many addi- 
tional ornamental trees and shrubs planted in various parts of the gardens and dying 
or dangerous trees removed, and a few new small beds and borders were rc*ade. The 
most important building put up was the new Cooly Lines. 1 he old lines were not 
only in a dangerous state of decay, but so infected with ben-ben that they were no 
longer fit for habitation and a large new building measuring 120 feet in length and 
36 feet in breadth, on brick pillars well raised above the ground was built-in another 
spot, at a cost of [,206 dollars and the improvement in health of the coolies was 
immediately noticeable. The watchmen’s quarters were also rebuilt. The fern house 
.and the anthurium house were re-roofed. 
Artist. - 
8. Early in the year CHARLES Alwis from Peradeniya was engaged to make 
drawings ol interesting local plants for the Flora of the Malay^PeninsuIa but did not 
fake up the appointment, and Mr. D. X. CHOUDHURY formerly employed in the 
Botanic Gardens, Calcutta, was engaged. He arrived on July 22nd and has been 
employed for the remainder of the year in making drawings. 
V ote 
Expenditure 
'Salary of Artist 
Materials ... 
$ 700.00 
Balance 
287.09 
38.60 
374-31 
$700 00 
