'J 
o 
Among the ornamental foliage plants introduced was Phrynium Jagoranum from 
Temango, Perak. Strobilanthes albostriatus introduced by the Director from Telom, 
Perak, last year was propagated and found to be easy of cultivation and to form an 
attractive pot plant ; the leaves of a dark green are veined with white above and deep 
purple beneath. 
A small collection of cacti was obtained from Mr. Tan Beng Chiang and proved 
very attractive. Large numbers of succulents were raised from seed received from 
La Mortola in the glass houses chiefly Gasteria, aloes , etc. 
It is not at all easy to grow succulents in this wet country, but under glass they 
can be raised, and, being kept in the drier parts of the plant-house, may do very well. 
A fine series of new cannas was presented by Father Gex containing many hand- 
some forms. . 
Mussxnda erythrophylla was magnificent all through the year and was in much 
request. Hosea lobbimia , a most beautiful and striking plant from Sarawak, was 
remarkably showy, and numerous cuttings were made from the two plants in the 
Gardens, and it is hoped to distribute this superb climber this year. 
A fine show of achimenes was staged in the flower house in May, and the exhibition 
of Burmese orchids in the early part of the year was the finest for very many 
years and attracted a large number of visitors. 
During the year 384 plants were presented and 759 bulbs and other plants 
purchased, and 640 packets of seeds were presented, and 150 packets purchased. 
The donors wereTVfr. Micholitz, Mr. Manners (Tirhoot), R. Little, M. Robertson- 
Prochowsky, Messrs. Herb, M. Buysman, Pereira, Trelease, Machado, 
Tan Beng Chiang, M. Isenberg, Mr. Long, Messrs. William Bros., A. Burn- 
Murdoch, Lewis, Colonel Murray, Mr. Marshall (Brunei), Mr. Hobson, Father 
Gex, and the Botanic Gardens of Cambridge, Buitenzorg, La Mortola, Mauritius, 
Durban, Yokohama, Manila, Kew, Washington, Berlin, Jamaica, Hanoi, Seychelles, 
Sydney, Grahamstown, Costa Rica, Calcutta, Taiping, Kwala Lumpur, Albany, 
Trivandrum, and U. S. A. Department of Agriculture. Among the .most important 
introductions were the Zapupe, Gomphocarpus semilunatus, Machilus nanmu (the 
Chinese Coffin tree), Bleekrodea tonkinensis, — Tonkin rubber, manihot dichotoma, 
heptaphylla and piauhyensis , Piper longum, Costa Rica coffee, a new fine large 
series of succulents from La Mortola, and some new cannas from Father Gex. 
Plants Exported. 
One hundred and thirty plants were sent to Kew, Taiping Gardens and elsewhere, 
and 315 packets of seed chiefly to the West African Colonies, Honduras and Christmas 
Island. 
New or Noteworthy Plants. 
The following plants flowered or fruited for the first time in Singapore: — 
1. Malay Peninsula. 
Didy mo carpus ascendens. — Tapah. 
Disporurn pullum. — Telom, Perak. 
Bulbophyllurn trichoglottis , 11. sp. — ’Telom, Perak. 
Do. conifermn , n. sp. — Telom, Perak. 
Sarcochilus anceps, n. sp. — Johore. 
Begonia pavonina> n. sp.- — -Johore. 
Begonia robinsonii , n. sp. — Johore. 
D o . roxbu rgh ii. — J o h or e . . 
Staurogyne arcuata. — Johore. 
Impatiens sarcantha , n. sp. — Johore. 
Do. exilipes , n. ,sr/>.-*-Tapah. 
Lepidagathis wight ii. — Johore. 
Eria bidens.- — Perak. 
Sarauja tristyla ) — Kelantan. 
Collabium nebulosum. — -Gunong Kerbau, Perak. 
Baeica , n. sp. — Gunong Kerbau, Perak. 
Cardiopteris lobata . — Perak. 
Zalacca wallickiana. — Fruited (Singapore.) 
