7 
Economic Gardens, 
During the year, a piece of ground, one and a half acres, lying near the citronella 
grass patch, was cleared and dug, and planted with rows of Ficus elastica , alternated 
with Coffees of different kinds, and Bananas. I'he soil here is very good though some- 
what damp, and is not subject to flooding as is a good part of the ground in this part 
of the Garden. The Ficus made very good and rapid growth, although some plants 
were attacked by Glyphodes Caterpillars. 
The grass beneath the rubber trees had to be cut twice during the year in order to 
secure the seeds. This work took a great deal of time, as the area is large. 
Many rubber seedlings were grown to supply the very large demand for them. 
A plague of small brown slugs attacked the young plants in the beds, and also 
damaged the young trees planted out. 
The Ramie beds were dug and fresh ones made. The Sansevieria cultivation was 
also increased as much as possible. A number of Bromelia Fibre plants were trans- 
ferred to this part of the Garden where they made fair growth. 
Besides Rubber plants for which there was a much larger demand than it was 
possible to supply, the chief demands were for fruit-trees, Betel-nuts, Cananga, Nut- 
megs, -Tea, Coca, Timber trees, and Shade trees, Ramie, Musa textltis, Sansevieras and 
Fourcroya. 
Para Rubber. 
The demand for plants and seeds of Para rubber still kept larger than any possible 
supply, of seeds 390,724 were disposed of as well as 8,920 plants. Most of the seed 
went to the Colony and Native States, lots were also sent to Jamaica, Lagos and 
Nigeria. These long distance* voyages were usually very successful, thus of 7,500 seeds 
sent to Jamaica, after nearly 3 months travelling, Mr. Fawcett reports “all germinating 
very well we shall scarcely lose 500A 
One hundred were sent to Old Calabar experimentally, a two months' voyage and 
ninety came up. Of 135 sent to Kew, 12^5 germinated. These seeds were sent in 
charcoal carefully damped, and packed in biscuit tins. These successful experiments 
show that Para Rubber seed though short-lived can be sent to almost all parts of the 
world with but a comparatively small loss. 
Applications were received for seed from all parts of the world, many of which 
were from places where there could be no chance of successful cultivation of the plant. 
As the stock was very early over-booked, a large number of requests had to be refused.. 
Vote ... ... ... ... ... 2,850 00 
Expenditure. 
$ c. 
Salaries of 26 Coolies ... 
. . . 
... 2,385 15 
Hand Cart ... 
. . . 
35 00 
Tools and -Stores 
. . . 
211 66 
Baskets, etc. 
, . . 
7580 
Pots and Tubs 
121 52 
Manure 
20 47 
Balance 
00 40 
2,850 00 
Inspection of Coconut Trees. 
During the year notices were served on 209 persons, and 885 dead and dying 
trees and fifty piles of rubbish harbouring beetles or likely to do so were removed and 
destroyed. No prosecutions were necessary. The red beetle is not by any means 
exterminated in Singapore nor is it really possible to utterly exterminate it, but it is 
kept in check to such an extent that it is really comparatively rare, and the amount of 
harm it does is very small now. 
$ - c. 
Vote 
A \ 
210 00 
