ANNUAL REPORT OF THE BOTANIC DEPARTMENT, SINGAPORE. 
M. 
n 
1 During my absence on leave till July 2nd, Mr. Fox took sole control of 
the Botanic Gardens, and on my return he applied for a year's leave and left m July 
Mr. J. Goodf.NOUGH who, in accordance with the retrenchment scheme, had 
been discharged from the Department, was taken on temporarily in November as 
Assistant 
The Herbarium Keeper, Tassim Daud, was discharged in September, and 
AHMAT KASSIM was taken on in his place. The Mandor of the Economic Garden, 
XAVIER, broke down in health, and left at the end of the year. 
Visitors. 
2 The number of visitors to the Gardens was as large as.usual, and the Regi- 
mental Band played once or twice a month for a portion of the year, and proved very 
attractive. . , , . 
There were a few cases of theft of flowers, but they were of no great importance, 
and there were no prosecutions. 
Aviaries. 
The improvements made in the aviaries last year have produced satisfactory 
results, the animals being more thriving and looking better. 
Amon^ the additions to the collection of animals were , 
One tforess [Felis tigris ), presented by Mr. D. H. Wise, Acting Resident, 
Pahansz- th?ee jackals {Cants aureus), presented by Captain BROWNE ; three orang 
utans [Simla satyrus ), purchased; one honey-bea r{Ursus malayanus), presented ; one 
Borneo red monkey ( Semnopithecus sp.), purchased; one Indian mungoose \{Herpestes 
trriseus\ purchased; three black Celebes monkey {Macacus niger), purchased; two 
kiianfrs (Cervulus muntjac ). purchased; one sparrow hawk (. Accipiter sp.), presented; 
one Afghan partridge { Caccabis chukar ), presented. A deer {Lervus equtnus ) was 
born in the Gardens, and a hybrid monkey, by a kra ( Macacus sintcus) out of a 
beruk (Macacus nemestrinus) was bred--a very rare occurrence, if indeed it has ever 
happened before. The little animal is growing well and Strong. 
F The pair of herons ( Ardea sumatrana ), which have been so long in the Gardens, 
laid three egg^ as did a box tortoise [Cistudo amboinensis ). A large python 
■ (Python reticulatus) laid a large number of eggs, apparently unfertile. 
V 7 The old deer-sheds being very unsatisfactory and in a state of decay, were pulled 
down and a*ew and stronger enclosure is being built. T^he constant rain at the close 
of the year prevented the work being finished. 
Plant-houses. 
The large plant-house needed very extensive repair, as much of the wood- 
work was rotten, and a number of beams were replaced. , As in the case of the new 
• deer sheds the rain caused much delay in executing the work, to which was added 
some difficulty in obtaining good timber, as Balau, the best timber now procurable at 
a reasonable rate, is getting scarce. 
The orchid-house fell down shortly before my return ; the upper part has been 
renlaced bv an iron structure, and the stages are being replaced with banks of coral- 
t d earth Most of the old houses and stages have now been reconstructed in 
thiTmanner which in many respects is immensely superior to the old plan of planks 
this m ’ brickwork pillars. The centre of the stage consists of earth, 
which r is e enclosed by walls of coral rock cut into blocks, and the top is covered with 
cement. Lawns and Flower-beds. 
These have been kept up to their usual standard during the year, and a 
large number of plants have been planted out where necessary 
g Among the more interesting plants which flowered for the first time or which 
have seldom flowered here were Gongora maculata Vanda hastifera , Renanthera 
Vtnripi Cost its ieneus, Alpinia involucrata, Ntcolaia elatior, Loxococcus rupicola , 
AnisoOtera glabra, Allamanda Williamsi , Garcinia Hanburyi , 7 richolcena 
tene/iffw { a^newly introduced fodder grass), Lespedeza Sieboldi (also a fodder 
plant ) Clerodendron myrmecophila, Anstolochia ungulifoha. 
