GOVERNMENT NOTIFICATION— No. 164. 
The following report on the Dindings by the Assistant Superintendent 
of Forests at Penang, is published for general information. 
By His Excellency’s Command, 
Colonial Secretary’s Office, 
Singapore , 8th March , 1888. 
A. M. SKINNER, 
Acting Colonial Secretary. 
Penang , jist January, 1888. 
Sir, — I have the honour to report, for the information of His Excellency the 
Governor, that, in accordance with instructions, I proceeded to the Dindings on January 
19th, taking with me a case of economic plants in pots, the weather being too dry at 
the time for lifting plants from the open ground. 
2. During six days I travelled over as much of the district as was possible 
without the aid of a steam-launch, which was unfortunately in dock, and examined 
the state of agriculture and nature of the soil. 
3. With the exception of Lumot Estate, on which tapioca and sugar are grown, 
the principal cultivated products appear to be cocoa-nuts and patchouly, both of which 
give a good return. The tapioca crop is looking well, and the machinery for manu- 
facturing flour will be erected shortly. 
4. Pepper is being tried on a small scale in three or four different parts of the 
district, and grows well, especially near the District Officer’s house at Pangkor, but 
the proper method of cultivation is not understood by the owners. The plants ha\ been 
allowed to grow up to the tops of the supports, instead of being layered as is uone by 
the Achenese planters in Province Wellesley. I explained to them practically, by 
treating plants in their presence, that when a pepper plant begins to branch it should 
be taken down from its support, the lower leaves removed, and the stem, up to- the 
junction of the branches, layered down in a previously prepared hole as near the 
support as is consistent with the safety of its roots, and the soil then replaced. 
Treated in this manner roots are emitted along the whole length of the stem that has 
been buried, the plant is better able to withstand drought, and fruit is produced from 
near the ground up to any height that may be desired. 
5. At Rajah Itam, which was reached by walking for five or six miles along 
the boundary line that divides the Dindings from Perak, I saw near a native house a 
plant of China grass ( Rhea or Ramie) which has attracted considerable attention of 
late on account of its valuable fibre. The owner of the garden stated that he was in 
the habit of cutting it down for the manufacture of fishing lines about once a month. 
At the time I saw it the shoots were four to five feet high, and as clean as could be 
desired. The soil at this place is a peculiar clayey loam of a light colour. 
6. There are a variety of soils in the district, some of which would produce cloves, 
nutmegs, pepper, Liberian coffee, chocolate, indigo, cocoa-nuts, paddy, &c. 
7. In order to encourage the cultivation of economic products, other than those 
mentioned in para. 3, which are already established, especially pepper, coffee, cloves- 
and nutmegs, I would suggest the formation of a small nursery in Pangkor, of about 
an acre in extent, where plants could be raised or planted temporarily on^heir arrival J 
from Penang or Singapore, previous to distribution to intelligent natives willing to 
give them a fair trial. 
8. After careful examination, in company with the District Officer, we came to 
the conclusion that the most suitable place for this purpose would be a piece of land 
near the Recreation Ground, which combines the advantages of fairly good land with an 
abundant water supply, and is sufficiently near the District Officer’s quarters to allow 
of his personal supervision. 
