3 
A small portable spraying machine was obtained during the year, and found to be 
very effective, the insecticide known as Xlall, a preparation of Nicotine, being used. 
When funds permit it is proposed to get a larger machine for cleaning the trees and 
shrubs of blight and caterpillars. 
New Plants. 
The following - plants flowered in the Botanic Gardens for the first time : — 
o 1 
Malayan — Pandanus bicornis, Ridl. — (Perak). 
Pinanga acaulis , n. sp.— (Perak). 
Gastrochilus plicatus , Ridl. — (Kelantan). 
G. reticosa, Ridl. and G . minima , Ridl. — (Borneo). 
Schizmatoglottis longispatha — (Borneo), 
Acriopsis borneensis , Ridl.— (Bor neo). 
Caelogyne parens, Ridl.— (Perak). 
Daaba nga sonneratioides . — ( P erak) . 
Burbidgea nitida, Br. — (Borneo.) . 
A risaema anomalum . — (Perak.) 
Camp randra angustifolia , Ridl. — (Borneo). 
Didymocarpus rugosus > Ridl.— (Kelantan). 
D . crinitus. var. — (Kelantan). 
Crinum Northianum — (Borneo). 
C ryptocor yne ciliaris — (Borne o) . 
Palaquium , sp. — (Malacca). 
Clerodendron Bethunianum . — (Borneo). 
Cypripedidm C hamberlainianum. — (Malay Islands). 
Dipodiu m paludosum. — (Borneo) . 
Siamese : — Pent acme siamensis. 
Chinese : — Sagittaria sagitti folia, var. 
Indian : — Congea tomentosa, var. azurea. 
Bauhinia Vahlii. 
Vanda Amesiana. 
Rubia cor difolia. 
Celsia coromandehana. 
Hibiscus radiatus . 
Porana paniculaia. 
African : — Lantana salvisefolia . 
Cyanastrum, new white flowered species. > 
Dracaena Godseffiana and D. fragrans , Tinnaea Sacleuxii. 
Tephrosia Vogelii , Aglaonema Mannii , Aristolochia Goldieana . 
Slrophanthus longicaudatus. ^ 
South America 
Xanthosoma Lindeni, Lucuma multiflora, Gustavia gracilis, Arauja grandiflora, 
Hymenocallis, sp. Oncidium tigrinum, 0 . varicosum, var. Rogersi, Cattleya Harrison- 
iJ, Hibiscus, 2 species undetermined from Mexico. 
Localities unknown 
Oxalis, sp. red flowers received from Sweden, Heptapleurum stelznerianum , 
Mucuna sericea , Aristolochia Forkelii (from Kew). 
At the end of the year there was a fine show of Burmese dendrobiums, chiefly 
Dendrobium crassinode, D. primulinum, and D. densiflorum, in the Plant-house. 
Plants and Seeds Beceived. 
The number of plants received during the year by presentation was 189 
together with 54y packages of seeds. - 
\ . 
