has been carted. Altogether 1,525 lineal yards of carriage road have been re-metal- 
led. In doing this, the Municipal Commissioners assisted both with labour and mate- 
rial. 
,10. A catalogue of flowering plants and ferns found growing wild in Penang 
has been compiled by me and printed by the Royal Asiatic Society, Straits Branch ; 
about 50 copies of which have been distributed to various Botanists and Forest Offi- 
cers. Phis list contains 1,971 species belonging to 793 genera, and 129 natural or- 
ders. It will require revision when the more recent collections have been critically 
examined by competent authorities, as many additional plants have been collected 
since this paper was printed. 
11: In the beginning of the year, I was absent on two months' leave and visited 
Rangoon, Mandalay, Bhamo and the Mergui Achipelago. During this trip I obtained 
many interesting plants for the Garden, and made the acquaintance of several gentle- 
men interested in Botany, Horticulture, and Forestry, who' not only did all in their 
power to assist me while on the spot, but have since contributed additional plants and 
seeds, arid will, I hope, continue to do so in the future. 
12. In July, a hurried visit- was made to Taiping, my absence from Penang only 
extending over three clear days. One of these days was spent in judging at the Tai- 
ping Agricultural and Horticultural Show, and the other two in collecting plants of 
Lecanopteris carnosa, and other plants, a portion of which were sent to the Royal 
Gardens,.' Kew, at the request of the Director of that establishment, and it is gratifying 
to find that the majority arrived alive. 
13. In October, I obtained permission to visit Perak for ten days for the purpose 
of obtaining plants for cultivation and exchange. A report on this trip was submit- 
ted, for the information of His Excellency the Governor, on my return, a copy of 
which is attached (Appendix. C). . . 
14. A visit was also made to the Dindings in connection with the planting. of 
cloves an’d nutmegs in that Settlement. 
Government Hill Gardens . 
15. A fairly good and regular display of flowering plants, both In beds and pots, 
has been maintained in the grounds of the Government Bungalow. Among the more 
striking and easily grown plants for beds at this altitude (2,500 feet) may be noted 
cannas, roses, dahlias, dianthus, begonias and corn-flowers. As a pot plant nothing 
surpasses in brilliancy at this altitude Impatiens Hawkerii , which is grown in great 
numbers. The whole stock in this part of the world has been propagated by cutting 
from the original plant I brought from Kew in December, 1891. All attempts to in- 
duce this plant to produce seed has been abortive. 
16. The old plant-shed on Gun Hill has been taken down and removed to a less 
exposed position below the Governor’s Bungalow, and the original site planted with 
grass. 
17. Vegetables have been regularly supplied to the Governor's Bungalow when 
occupied, and fwice a week to the Residency throughout tlie year. Only a limited 
nuinber^of European kinds can be profitably grown, the easiest and most satisfactory 
being carrots, beet, leeks, lettuce, khol rabi, radish, peas, and, in the dry season, 
tomatos- “ Collections ” of both vegetable and flower seeds put up by the trade, 
either in Europe or India, always contain at least 5o-per cent, of varieties quite un- 
suitable for this climate, and it is, therefore, cheaper and better in ordering seeds to 
specify the kind and quantity required. Several of these “ collections" were sent me 
during the year by residents in Penang and Sumatra for an opinion as to suitability 
and instructions for cultivation, with permission to take a portion for the Gardens. I 
am afraid in most cases the result to the purchaser was disappointment. 
. 18. In the experimental nursery the most important event of the year is the 
heavy crop of fruit borne by three trees of Avocada pear ( Persia gratissima ), the 
introduction of which is a decided success, and the cultivation of which will be largely 
extended this season from the seed obtained. A few of the orange trees produced 
some fruit, but not so abundantly as could be wished. Lichee, loquat, and olives look 
promising, and we shall see in a year or two more whether these are deserving of ex- 
tended cultivation. 'The great drawback to cultivation in these hill gardens is the 
excessive cost of carrying up manure. 
Preservation of Coco-nut Trees. 
19. Notices were served on 661 persons having on their premises dead trees or 
material suitable for breeding places for the beetles. Of this number, 23 were pro- 
secuted for non-compliance with the orders, and fines inflicted amounting to $30.50, 
