8 
An obscure disease of the shoots and leaves of Ficus -elastica was reported from 
Muar, It was partly due to a leaf fungus, specimens of which were sent to Kew for 
identification 
Vote for upkeep of Economic Gardens ... $2, 200 
Expenditure : — — — 
Salaries of Mandore and Coolies ... 2,002.63 
Tools and Stores 113.17 
Manure ... ... ■ 30.00 
Sand ... ... 7 > 5 ° 
Purchase of plants ... 26.40 
Balance ... • 20.30 
2,200.00 
Inspection of Coco-nut trees. 
During the year, 699 trees and 21 piles of rubbish containing or likely to contain 
beetles destructive to coco-nut trees, were destroyed, and 266 trees were destroyed 
on abandoned ground chiefly at Teluk Kurau by a coolie employed for the purpose 
till July. Notices were served on 156 persons and there were no prosecutions. 
There is, I think, no doubt that the number of red beetles has considerably dimi- 
nished in Singapore. They seem to be comparatively rare now. The destruction of 
abandoned trees and trees in neglected patches is I think responsible for this. 
Vote . . ... . ... $486.00 
Expenditure : — — 
Salaries of 
Inspector, climber and cooly ... ... 324.00 
Transport ... ... ... 141.76 
Uniforms . .. ... ... 12.75 
Balance ... ... 7.49 
$486.00 
Gutta Percha and Rubber Planting. 
The small vote for this purpose allowed of three men being employed to clear 
the forest on the lower slopes of Bukit Timah, and plant as many trees of Getah 
Taban as were procurable. The plants planted on the previous year w'ere cleared 
and replaced where they had died as far as possible, and the trees growing in the 
forest on the Eastern slope were inspected, the shrubs and jungle trees which were crowd- 
ing them out were cleared away, and a number of over-crowded young plants were 
removed from that locality and transferred to the new plantation. The ground on the 
left side of the road going up to the Bukit Timah Hill proved less suitable for the 
growth of Getah Taban than was expected, and although a few plants planted on the 
previous year made a very good growth, one attaining a height of nearly 8 feet 6 inches 
and several from 3 to 5 feet ; the others made a much slower growth, and at one part 
a large number died. It became clear that the plant requires at least, at first, partial 
shade and is better grown in secondary growth, sufficiently cleared to allow light to 
reach them. Hills sloping to water courses covered with thin wood suits the plant 
better than anything else, provided that they are not planted too close to the water. 
Suitable ground was found on the right side of the road, and here the fern was cut 
down and spaces cleared so as to plant as many as could be procured. In the 
meanwhile steps were taken to secure as many plants as possible and with the aid of 
a small vote for purchase of seeds and plants, 2,300 seedlings were obtained, and 720 
stumps were presented by M. LE Comte d’Abbans. These were not sufficiently far 
advanced in growth to plant out till the end of the year and the weather 
then being exceedingly dry was not favourable. They will be planted out in 1901. 
Besides these 1,400 stumps of Getah Sundik [Payena Leerii) were purchased and 
errown on so as to be ready for planting. This gutta is in demand for mixing with 
Getah Taban for cable purposes, the Taban not being sufficiently plastic alone. A few 
plants of Dichopsts calophylla came on previous occasions mixed with D. oblongifolia. 
This contains a valuable gutta, but less so than D. oblongifolia . It is evidently a 
stronger and more rapidly growing plant than D. oblongifolia and stands the sun 
much better. 
