repotted and are making new growths. In the other plant houses all the pot-plants 
have been repotted, rearranged, and represent care and culture. 
Improvements. 
9. The Penang Garden is now 25 years old and when first commenced it 
contained many interesting indigenous specimens of trees and palms which have been 
preserved, while the groups and specimens since planted have made so much growth 
that the tkne ha* arrived for some landscape effects. Some years ago the waterfall 
was the most striking natural feature of the garden, but latterly it was not easy to view 
from any part of the garden, and escaped the notice of most visitors. The best view 
of it which is from the Band-stand has been improved by the removal and pruning 
of superfluous foliage. The waterfall itself is considerably overgrown and if permission 
can be obtained it should be recleared during the next dry weather. 
The most important landscape effect has, however, been obtained by opening a 
vista from a point on the main drive near the entrance to the garden looking across 
the stream towards the plant nurseries. The two cascades over the stream are brought 
prominently into view and a long border of brilliant coloured Cannas between the 
cascades of water furnishes a pleasing picture. Some other flower-beds have been 
added and the general appearance of this part of the garden has been made brighter. 
The work involved the removal of a huge clump of the common and rather formidable 
bamboo (Bamtusa spinosd). This species grows into an almost impenetrable mass 
which is difficult to destroy (unless by fire which cannot be used in a public garden) so 
that the task of removing it proved an arduous one. 
The main drive already referred to has been slightly improved by reducing an 
ugly bend. 
10. By far the largest undertaking however has been the commencement of 
converting the ravine running from the circular road to the swimming bath into a 
natural rockery for the reception of the large collection of Aroids and certain 
shade-loving Palms. 
It will perhaps be well to explain here that this so-called bath is really the Garden 
reservoir, which supplies the plant sheds and nurseries with water through one-inch iron 
pipes, and that since the club swimming bath started at Tanjong Bungah the Garden 
bath has fallen into almost entire disuse. The reservoir is essentially necessary and 
must be maintained, but the Garden funds would not stand the cost of renewing the 
dilapidated buildings (dressing-rooms, etc.,) which were so very occasionally used and 
the opportunity was therefore taken to utilize the ravine for the purpose stated. 
When completed (considering the richness of Aroids in the Malayan flora) a most 
interesting and valuable collection of these plants will be permanently established for 
study or enjoyment in a cool retreat. Several species of epiphytic Aroids already 
abound on trees growing in the ravine ; others have been planted. In building the 
rockery, the bed of the stream has been contoured so as to form a feature of the work. 
Of the Aroids planted which include duplicates of all our Anthuriums, Alocasias, 
Amorphophallus, Spathiphyllum, Dieffenbachia, Schismatoglottis, Homalomena, 
Aglaonema, Philodendron, Pothos, Schizocasia and Caladiums all have grown well. 
At the time of writing the plants of Spathiphyllum cannsefolium furnish a nice 
display of white flower-spathes which are deliciously fragrant in the mornings and 
evenings. A little time must elapse before the Anthuriums represent their best ; but 
those specimens which have flowered exhibit more perfect and better coloured spathes 
under the natural shade than is ever obtained with pot- plants under artificial shade. 
Aquatic Aroids and the ‘KeladP or Colocasias and Xanthosomas are not yet 
provided for. 
Upkeep and Buildings. 
11. The dam across the reservoir was found to be leaky. The faces have been 
re-cemented and a new hardwood water gate provided. The reservoir has also been 
thoroughly cleaned and the accumulated wash-sand removed. 
The bertam chicks on the iron or No. 1 plant house have been entirely renewed. 
Many of the posts and beams of No. 3 plant house have been renewed and painted, 
and the whole roof renewed with split nibongs. 
The circular drive from the Aroid ravine as far as the Band-stand or a distance of 
200 yards has been re-metalled with 3 inches of granile by the Public Works Depart- 
ment. The same department has also renewed the two rustic bridges crossing the 
stream near the fern rockery. 
