20 
27. The reserve is principally wooded with 
The most important trees are: — 
Seraya (Hopea cernua) , 
Meranti (Hopea meranti) , 
Kelat ( Eugenia zeylanica ) , ... 
Kayu Mmyak (Dipterocarpus Isevis ) , 
young forest. 
fairly abundant, 
do. 
do. 
do. 
28. The demarcation of inhabited lands, and an extension towards the frontier, 
will form part of the operations for the year 1889. 
Jus District. 
29. Nothing could be done in the large district of Jus, but demarcation has now 
commenced. 
General' Remarks. 
30. It has been thought that the time has arrived when some revenue might be 
raised from the reserves, by supplying timber and general forest produce to the 
different villages. 
31. With this object in view, the principal operations for the year will consist 
in preparing reliable maps showing all the topographical features, and the reserves 
marked info blocks. 
32. The reserves will be marked into blocks by means of inspection paths, and 
each block will be dealt with separately. The timber wall be classified, waste lands 
to be planted will be noted, brushwood requiring artificial assistance, either by plant- 
ing, thinning or sowing seeds, will be marked, and all possible information collected 
and recorded. 
It will then be left to decide what timber can be spared from the difUrent 
blocks, and, with the necessary information to work on, the fellings can be properly 
controlled. 
Bukit Sabukur Experimental Garden. 
33. The most important work of the year has consisted of maintenance, propagat- 
ing and planting, and clearing and preparing ground for the reception of plants & for 
experiment and nursery stock. 
34. Seeds of forest trees, rotans, &c. have been sown from time to time for 
general planting. 
35. Perhaps the most important work in this direction has been the preparation 
of seedling fruit trees for distribution. From applications received and notified, it is 
evident there is a large demand for the principal kinds of fruit, both in the Settlement 
and Native States, and several thousands will be prepared during the year 1889. 
_ 36. The nucleus of a collection of general economic plants has been introduced 
during the year. 
• P 
37. The following notes are made on experiments now being carried on. 
38. Mauritius hemp (Fourcroya gigantea) grows slowly but well, some fibre 
has been prepared from a few old plants, and has the appearance of good fibre. 
39. If kept free from weeds, nothing further appears to be required to ensure 
success. 
40. Virginian tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum, var.). — From seeds received from 
Kew, a fine lot of plants were raised ; but from seeds saved locally, the plants deteri- 
• orated so much that the cultivation ha^been discontinued. 
41. Deli tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum, var.) has been tried, but this has also 
proved unsuccessful. 
42. Castor oil ( Ricinus communis). — Seeds were obtained from the Botanic 
Gardens at Calcutta. The plants have grown vigorously and are now commencing 
to fruit. ^ 
