12 
(g) the protection of getah trees, rotans, and other minor products, should re- 
ceive attention, and artificial reproduction resorted to, if necessary, though 
immediate protective measures will probably render this unnecessary except 
in the case of very scarce and valuable trees, &c. ; 
(k) separate reserves for fire-wood should be established on the banks of the 
rivers, where th$ vegetation is principally bakau. 
11. The need of a small protective staff in order to check the illicit removal of 
timber, &c., is already felt by the District Officer, and the system I have ventured to 
suggest cannot be carried out without the assistance of intelligent men. 
12. The object should not be to obtain the greatest possible immediate revenue, 
but to bring the forests into the condition in which they will produce the best kinds 
of timbers, and prove a permanent source of wealth. 
C. CURTIS. 
Assistant Superintendent of Forests, Penang . 
APPENDIX C. 
Penang 30th July, 1888 . 
Sir, — I have the honour to report that, in accordance with the Governor’s in- 
struction to visit the Dindings and assist the District Officer in settling the area and 
position of Forest Reserves, I left Penang on the 7th instant and returned on 
the 14th instant. 
2. Mr. MEREWETHER was ready to start immediately on my arrival in Pangkor, 
and we proceeded at once in the Steam-lanuch to Telok Sera. 
3. On the following day we took a sampan, and went up the Bruas River in 
order to examine the mangrove swamps in which much of the firevwood used by 
local steamers is cut. Landed at Pangkalan Bdru and walked across to the Perak 
boundary near Sungei Tuntong. 
4. On the third morning we started from Telok Sera, and walked over nine 
miles of excellent new bridle-path which passes through some of the best land in the 
District. Took a sampan and went down the river to Kota Siam and joined the 
launch, which had been sent around by the Dindings River, and proceeded up the 
Raja Itam River. 
5. The fourth day we walked through abandoned ladang land to Gunong 
Tunggal, a long isolated hill about 500 feet in height, from the top of which Pe- 
nang can be seen. 
6. The fifth and sixth days were spent in Pangkor examining the forests, and 
collecting specimens of such trees, &c. as were in flower or fruit, and in deciding as 
far as possible the position of the areas to be conserved. 
7. On a previous occasion I had an opportunity of examining the southern 
portion of the District, and with the experience gained during these two visits, and 
from information supplied by Mr. MEREWETHER, I am of opinion that it is desirable 
to establish reserves in places shown approximately in enclosed plan. 
8. Pangkor Island has been cleared of the best timbers wherever it could be 
worked out with ease, but there is still a great deal high up the hills, and in places 
more or less difficult of access. 
The land has not been cultivated, and there is a good covering of young trees of 
various kinds, a fair proportion of which will grow into valuable timber. The 
l^nd is in a condition to receive seeds of the better class' of tress if a sufficient 
number be allowed to remain long enough to arrive at a seed-bearing age, and I, 
therefore, advise that the whole Island be closed for a time. 
9. Telok Sera reserve includes the highest range in the District, the greater 
^portion of which is unsuited for agricultural purposes. The roads from Sungei Satal 
to Kota Siam and Sungei Glam are excellent boundaries, and all the demarcation 
necessary is to run a line nearly east from the latter place until the Kota Siam Road 
is reached. 
10. Tanjong Burong is a flat swamp well covered with young mangrove trees, 
which, if protected, will grow into a valuable crop of fire-wood, for which there is a 
steady demand. In order to demarcate this reserve, it is only necessary to open one 
line from near the mouth of the Bruas River to the Perak boundary. 
