4 
Outside Work . 
23. In the early part of the year, the Department^ designed and planted some 
ornamental beds on a piece of public ground called Robinson Quay, after which the 
Public Works Department took it in charge. 
Herbarium. 
24. The work of incorporating the various collections made in the- Straits has- 
gone on as speedily as possible, and a very large number of specimens have been 
added to the herbarium. The largest and most important addition was that of the 
collection made during the expedition in Pahang, when upwards of two thousand spe- 
cimens were obtained, among these are. representatives of several new and interesting 
genera and many new species, besides many not hitherto known to occur in the Penin- 
sula. A large number of specimens were also collected in Singapore, -Johor, and 
Malacca, by myself. Mr. HOLMBERG acting for Mr. Derry, who was superintending 
Penang * in place of Mr. CURTIS, absent on leave, sent a number of specimens from 
Malacca, and a small number were presented by the Hon’ble D. F. A. Hervey. From 
Borneo, Dr. HAVILAND sent 209 specimens, and Mr. R. W. Id UL LETT 91. Dr. King 
sent 345 specimens from Perak and India. 1 he Royal Gardens, Kew, presented 177 
specimens from various Indian and other collectors. Baron F. VON MUELLER pre- 
sented 440 Australian specimens. 
25. A number of rattans with the native names, timbers and fruits were also 
collected during the year, but the absence of any place to store and preserve these 
specimens precludes at present any great strides being made in this direction. 
26. - Of specimens distributed to various collectors, 800 plants were sent to Dr. 
King. 443 to the British Museum, a small number to the Royal Gardens, Kew, to 
Dr. BURCK, Buitenzorg, Professor Hackel, and others. 
27. Collecting apparatus was sent to several persons in Borneo and the Straits 
Settlements, who had promised to preserve specimens for the Herbarium. 
A rtist . 
28. The Botanical Artist continues his drawings., of plants of importance and 
interest in the Malay Peninsula. It is hoped shortly to prepare lithographic plates 
of some of the apocynacoous gutta-producing plants — the Willoughbeias, Alstonias, 
Dyera, etc.— and eventually also of the Palms and Pandani of the Malay Peninsula. 
* Expedition. 
29. During the year, an exploring expedition visited Pahang with a view of 
reaching the lofty range of Gunong Tahan in the interior. The party failed, however, 
to reach the desired point, owing partly to sickness and partly to the difficulties of the 
route, which so delayed the expedition that the supply of proviAons ran out A large 
number of plants, both alive and in the form of herbarium specimens, were obtained, 
including very many rare and new species of much interest. 
Coco-nut Trees Ordinance. 
30. During the year, 128 notices were served on various owners of trees and 
plantations, requiring the destruction of decaying trees and rubbish. The owners 
complied with the notices without delay,' and it was not found necessary to summons 
any for not doing so. The worst affected district was that of Kalang, where 
neglected, unhealthly plantations, and piles of old tan-bark were producing much 
damage to the more careful planters. The number of trees destroyed was 1,364, and 
1 737 old stumps and fragments of coco-nut timber were removed and burnt or buried. 
There is still some work to be done in the Kalang district, but most of the other por- 
tions of Singapore are clean. 
31. At the close of the year, evidence was received that the Inspector under the 
Ordinance MUSAFFER Alt — had been receiving illegal gratifications, and otherwise 
acting fraudulently. He was summoned and found guilty on one -count, was fined by 
; he Magistrate, and dismissed from the service. 1 he coolies under him worked well 
roughout the year. 
1 
\ 
