The chief demands besides Para rubber were for fruit-trees, Vanilla, chocolate, 
shade trees and pepper plants. There was a large demand from New Guinea, the 
Seychelles, and the Native States. Pepper was wanted chiefly for Madras where a 
disease had destroyed a large quantity of the Estates. Mr. G. B. Cerruti conceived 
the idea of teaching the Sakais to make Panama hats and a small number of plants 
was supplied him with instructions as to their use, and a number of plants were 
planted out to observe their growth. 
Vegetable seeds were in demand for Cocos and Christmas Islands and elsewhere. 
The stock of economic plants was re-arranged, and a good number propagated to 
supply demands. 
Among the important economic plants added to the Gardens were Eugenia pitang- 
go , a fruit tree from Mexico sent by Mr. Harvey ; a large variety of Guava, from 
Trinidad Botanic Gardens; a number of Mangos from Madagascar, and some grafted 
kinds from ChATTERJEE (Calcutta). Cardamum seed from Ceylon; Cotton seed from 
Egypt, presented by Mr. PRITCHARD (Penang). Ocimurn viride from Sierra Leone 
Gardens; eight kinds of pineapple suckers from Mr. Lucas (Jamaica) and one kind, 
the Spineless Guatemala pine from Mr. Harvey of Mexico, and plants of a very large 
Ceylon variety from Mr. Carey. 
Seed of the fodder grass Paspaliun dilatatum was obtained from Australia, hut 
did not germinate. 
Vote ... ... ... / ... f2.808.oo 
Expenditure ... ... ... 2,797.26 
Balance ... S 10.74 
Government House Grounds. 
There was less trouble among the Coolies in the Government House domain than 
in the Botanic Gardens, and the full number worked all the year. The overseer Rappa 
worked well. 
Vote ... ... ... f 2, 266.00 
Expenditure ... ... ... 2,242.23 
Balance ... f 23.77 
Inspection of Coconut Trees. 
During the year the inspector visited all the plantations of Coconut trees in 
Singapore and served notices on 222 persons to destroy 925 dead trees, and remove 
or destroy 57 piles of rubbish. All complied with their notices and there were no 
prosecutions. 
Although a few beetles occur in Singapore still, the amount of damage done is 
real I v very small. 
Vote ... ... ... ... §2 10.00 
Transport 
Uniform 
Balance 
181.58 
8.00 
20.42 
f 2 1 0.00 
HENRY X. RIDLEY. 
Director of Gardens. 
Botanic Gardens, Penang. 
The year 1903 will long be remembered as the one in which the designer of the 
Gardens had to retire owing, I regret to say, to ill health. Mr. CURTIS had arranged to 
go on long leave in April, but a complete breakdown in February necessitated his 
departure for England on March 7th. In Mr. CURTIS’S retirement the Government 
lose an able conscientious and hardworking officer. It falls to the lot of few men 
on their retirement to leave their life's work in so visible and concrete a form. 
