4 
ECONOMIC GARDENS. 
A small store was erected in the Economic Gardens in place of the old wooden 
shed which was in use for so many years. 
The Municipality in making a new road in the neighbourhood asked to be allowed 
to take soil from the hill opposite in the arboretum to fill up a swamp. This was 
permitted on condition of the hill being levelled and turfed. The excavations 
necessary were very unsightly for some time but by the end of the year they were 
filled in and levelled, and will shortly be turfed. 
1 he Garden was kept up in a very good condition as well as could be expected, 
considering for the greater part of the year, the European staff was reduced to the * 
Assistant only. The export of plants and seeds of economic interest was greater than 
usual, not only in Para Rubber, but in other products, a matter of satisfaction as it 
shows that the agriculture of the tropical English colonies is not being confined to 
Rubber only. 
There was a demand for seeds of the Oil Palm ( Elaeisguineensis ) due to an article 
in the “ Agricultural Bulletin ' of this year pointing out the value of this plant in 
cultivation. Fibre plants were also in great request and though the cultivation of these 
has been slowly making Its way in the Peninsula, still there are signs of its really 
playing an important part in the local cultivation in the near future. 
Catch crops for rubber as represented by Ground-nut, Citronella and Lemon- 
grass, were in demand. Camphor seedlings were taken for trial in several of the 
Estates in the Federated Malay States. Fruit trees were required also largely for the 
Federated Malay States, where the supply of fruit is by no means what could be 
desired. 
The Para Rubber seed crop was the biggest on record, viz., 410,600 of which 
405,600 seeds and 13,100 seedlings were disposed of. The Gutta Percha fruited 
well and 1,380 seeds were sent to Mauritius, but travelled very badly. Of 
Willughbeia firma , 18 seedlings were sold. Besides these 100,000 Rubber seeds were 
purchased, packed and sent to British New Guinea. 
Fibre plants were sold as follows : — Ramie 3,170, Sanseviera 10,000, Manila Hemp 
130, Mauritius Hemp 150 and of Fruit trees various kinds 1,700 plants and 12,000 
seeds. 
A big sending of Coconuts to Lagos was 3,000 nuts in crates, and requiring 
30 carts to convey them to the docks. 
Of Tapioca 300 plants, Coffee 125, Citronella 160, Lemon-grass 250, Camphor 
750, Cocoa 160, Nutmeg 172, Oil Palm 3,030 seeds, Ground-nuts 50 lbs. seeds. 
The greater part of these seeds and plants were supplied to the Federated Malay 
States and Johore, chiefly to Selangor and Perak. Of other Colonies, Lagos, British 
New Guinea, Southern Nigeria, and the Caroline Islands were the chief recipients. 
The total export of plants and seeds this year was : — 
Economic Plants ... ... ... 1 8,085 
Ornamental Plants ... ... ••• ••• 6,744 =24,829 
Economic Plant Seeds ... • •• 5 2 5 » 3 10 
Ornamental Plant Seeds (sold and exchanged) 558 Packets. 
This export entailed a very large amount of labour and correspondence. An extra 
seed boy to collect seed was employed, and a larger number of men than usual were 
required to gather the large crop of rubber seeds. When the Gutta Percha trees were 
fruiting, the fruit bats attacked the fruit in such numbers that it was with difficulty 
that any of the crop was saved at all. The lower part of the best tree was covered 
with cloth and nets, lights were put in the tree and a Tamil Batcatcher employed. 
Experimental Rubber Tapping. 
During the absence of the Director, Mr. Fox the Superintendent from Penang 
Gardens carried on the researches as to growth and returns of the Rubber trees, though 
for the whole nine months he was required to do the whole work of the two Gardens 
single handed. The records were carefully kept, and the report will be shortly 
completed. The rubber prepared during the experiments was sold locally and fetched 
$3,194.32. Part of the money obtained by the sale of the rubber was utilized in 
installing a water supply to the Botanic Gardens, which has long been needed, and 
which was otherwise unprocurable. This installation cost five thousand dollars. 
