*3 
REPORT ON THE GARDENS AND FORESTS, MALACCA. 
1. Mr. J. S. GOODENOUGH took charge of the Department in June, on Mr, 
DERRY’S proceeding to Europe on leave. 
2. With the reduced staff consisting of only four coolies and a mandor, nothing 
but the usual nursery garden work could be attempted. The beds adjoining the 
proposed lake were kept in good order, and about 6,366 plants of various kinds 
were propagated, of which 2,207, chiefly fruit-tuees, were sold to various private 
persons, and 73 various trees were supplied to Government grounds. 
3. A line of palms were planted along the main drive during the year, and they 
have grown well and already are a noticeable feature in the garden. 
The Plant-sheds. 
4. The plant-sheds, of which there are two, have been well looked after, and the 
plants contained therein are doing well. 
5. One shed is situated a little way above the. nursery. It is a span-roofed shed, 
of rumbia attaps, measuring 51 feet long by 14 feet wide, principally given to 
orchids, lilies and ornamental plants a$d shrubs. 
6. The other one, 41 feet long by 18 feet wide, and situated next to the 
cross entrance, is also a span-roofed structure covered with rumbia attaps ; the side 
tables, made of rough red iron-stones, are one foot high on which are placed ferns 
(some very fine ones), begonias (both native and foreign) and creeping aroids ; and 
it is also used to shelter the more ‘delicate native plants brought in from distant 
jungles. 
Experimental Cultivation . 
7. The clove trees, which were planted in 1888, have flowered twice during the 
year, and 1 hope to be able to get some data as to the probable yield of cloves per 
tree and of the market value. 
8. Some of the young plants planted in the upper portion of the gardens in 
1891 have not thriven as the soil was too hard. They nave been removed to a more 
suitable spot, which has been, more beneficial to them. 
9. Nutmegs. — It would seem that dry, clayey s*o^ does not suit these. A few 
trees planted fur experiment in a dry spot dwindled away till they had a starved and 
stunted appearance, while trees planted in the lower p irt of the gardens where the 
soil is richer and less dry, have thriven and are all that can be desired. 
10. Tea (Hybrid Assam) and Liberian coffee are growing well, and endeavours 
will be taken to keep a good stock supply, especially of the latter, for which there is 
an increasing demand in the Settlement. 
11. Farming. — The fruit crop of the gardens was let for $33.99 during the year. 
12. Exchanges. — A large number of fruit trees and other economic plants 
were transmitted to Singapore and Penang, for shipment to other parts of the world, 
13. Herbarium . — -An extensive series of specimens was collected during the 
year, a set of which was sent to the Singapore Herbarium. The collection has now 
become so large that additional accommodation was found essential. * Two new 
cabinets were, therefore, purchased at a cost of $35. 
14. Forest Reserves , — The total area of reserved forests in the Malacca Settle* 
ment is now 49,210 acres. The boundaries of all the reserves have been kept clear 
of weeds and grass, as well as possible with the reduced staff, except in the cases of 
the Brisu and Mertimau reserves, which had to be much neglected. 
15. Staff .— The Forest Police, having been reduced by 12 men, now consists 
of only two Corporals, 3 Lance-Corporals and 7 Watchmen. All worked well, 
with the exception of one Corporal, who was found to be neglecting his work, and 
was dismissed. 
16. Licenses. — Passes for timber-cutting, collecting dammar and woOd-oil, 
cutting rattan, collecting palm-toddy and fibre were given out, for various reserves, viz., 
Sungei Udang, Bukit Bruang, Bukit Panchor, Merlimau, Bukit Sadanen, Jus and 
Batu Tiga, and brought in a revenue of $593.10. The fruit-trees were farmed in the 
Panchor reserve and produced $85.23. 
17. Fires. — One large fire- occurred at Ayer Kurau, which burnfc down grass and 
brushwood to the extent of about forty acres. The cause was undiscovered. 
18. Prosecutions. — There was but one prosecution during the year, for timber 
putting at Batang Malaka. The defendant was fined $20, which was paid. 
