IO 
APPENDIX A. 
GARDENS AND FORESTS DEPARTMENT, PENANG. 
1. The only important change in the staff was caused by the death of Mr. P. 
NlEUKEY, who had been Overseer of the Waterfall Garden almost from its commence- 
ment. Mahomed Haniff, now in the last year of his apprenticeship, is acting as 
Overseer on probation. 
2. After a further trial of five months, during which the health of myself and 
family suffered severely from fever, it was found necessary to vacate the Garden bunga- 
low and rent quarters as convenient to the work as possible. Thinning out the jungle 
in the neighbourhood of the bungalow had no effect whatever in making the bunga- 
low more healthy. I am thankful to say that the change has proved most beneficial, 
as none of my family have since suffered from fever, and myself only slightly, 
caused in my case by exposure such as would induce fever almost anywhere in the 
tropics. $ 
Maintenance of Forest Reserves. 
\ 
3. In this branch of the Department the work of the year consisted principally 
in the performance of Police duties, and the re-clearihg of boundaries. Forty-three 
persons were prosecuted for various offences, the more important being timber 
cutting, encroachment, and setting fire to Crown forest. Of this number, thirty-two 
were convicted and fined in sums varying from one to fifty dollars ; the total amount 
aggregating $314. 
4. Since January, 1889, up to which time great leniency was shown, in order 
that the villagers and hill cultivators principally concerned might become acquainted 
with the limits within which timber cutting or cultivation is prohibited, and which 
had been defined during the two previous years, two hundred and fourteen persons 
have been prosecuted, and it is safe to assert that had no conservancy measures 
been taken up to the present, there would now be but little old forest remaining 
in Penang. 
5. During the last three months of the year, thirty-seven miles of boundary 
were gone over and re-cleared where it had become overgrown with lalang, resam , 
&c. It is principally on abandoned land and along the edges of clearings that 
difficulty is experienced in keeping the boundaries open. In old jungle there is 
scarcely any trouble. 
6. In this connection I may point out that satisfactory maps of each separate 
reserve are much needed. 
Waterfall Garden. 
7. Perhaps the most noticeable of the many improvements effected during the 
year is the re-placing of two wooden bridges over the main stream with new opes of 
iron and granite. One of these old bridges was in existence before the land was 
acquired by Government for the purpose of forming a public garden, and the road 
was laid out so as to utilize it, but for the past two years it has been in so unsafe 
a condition that carriage traffic has been suspended, greatly to the inconvenience of 
visitors. The new one has been built a few feet higher up the stream, and the 
approaches improved by altering the curve on one side, and cutting down the road 
to an easier gradient on the other. 
8. The second bridge was built by the Garden coolies about five years ago, 
and the masonry is still in good condition. What has now been done is to replace 
the wooden beams with an iron frame-work, granite pillars at each end, and an iron 
railing. At the same time it has been ^raised about eighteen inches which has afford- 
ed an opportunity of improving the gradient of the road. 
g. Various other works of importance have been carried out, including the 
cutting down and sloping a steep cliff, thirty feet high, close by the main bridge, and 
re-metalling 9,448 superficial feet of carriage road. The development of the sur- 
roundings of this slope will be gone on with in 1893. 
10. Several beds of annuals and shrubs have been re-planted, some of the . 
former three times, supply of plants being maintained in pots and boxes for this 
purpose so that the beds are not long out of flower. 
