9 
planting be done but it will be impossible to properly weed and clean the trees 
already planted. This is the more to be regretted as it has been at last found 
possible to induce the Natives to bring for sale at cheap rates seeq and seedlings 
of the most valuable timbers. Belian seed too has been, through the aid ot Mr. 1RYER 
of Sandakan, sent in large quantities, and did funds permit it would be possible to 
plant many acres of worthless ground with this tree which produces probably the 
best timber in the Oriental region. . 
The tree is being cut down wholesale in Borneo and exported, but in Singapore 
the wood is very expensive, and, with the destruction that is going qn, will ere long 
be even more so. There is an idea in Singapore that it is too hard to work, but the 
great use of it in Borneo shows the fallacy of this. Like all good timbers it is of 
course very hard, and the Chinese carpenter finds it more .profitable to work with 
the softer and inferior woods, not only on account of their being easier to cut but also 
because they soon perish and have to be replaced. There is no reason except that 
of expense why the timbers of at least the more important buildings should not be 
of Belian instead of softer and more perishable woods. 
No one who visits the saw-mills of Singapore can fail to be struck with the poor 
class of timber to be seen there now many planks are cut from the sap wood ot 
the inferior classes of Meranti and SerSm, and every year must see a still poorer 
supply of good timber, as the Siak, Johor and Bornean forests are being heavily 
-denuded. It would, therefore, seem advantageous to plant up the worthless lalang 
fields with seedlings of such timbers as Belian, Kranji, Rasakandthe like, in order that 
by the time all the good accessible woods are destroyed, a fresh supply may be ready. 
Nor would any future time be more suitable than the present while the seed 
of these trees is still procurable. Belian seed which, if properly planted and looked 
after, would develop into valuable timber, is wasting in the Bornean forests. Kranji 
fruit is imported in quantity into Singapore merely for eating, the seed being prac i- 
cally destroyed. It was formerly abundant in Singapore, but was in such demand for 
coffins that the Chinese practically exterminated the tree, shipping the wood to China 
Both trees grow rapidly and well here, and at a small expenditure might be planted 
extensively. 
Fires. 
7 There were eight fires during the year, some of considerable extent. One 
broke out at Bukit Panjang, and burnt about ,50 acres of lalang and medium sized 
trees It had been raised by two Chinese for the purpose of clearing a small patch 
of gfass on their property in order to plant pineapples. They were arrested and 
fined $25 apiece ; one paid the fine, the other suffered a month s imprisonment. 
At Bed P ok 40 acres of grass were burnt in February ; at Jurong one acre rf 
arass and fern; at Chan Clm Kang two acres of grass were burnt in July In the 
Changi reserve there were no less than four fires, about 32 acres of grass, fern and 
small trees being burnt. ' / 
F> i / / I n ‘t't C 
S. The were 15 cases of prosecution for cutting and removing timber, grass, etc. 
Of these, four defendants were cautioned and discharged, and m one case ^ de- 
fendant absconded. .The remainder were convicted and fines to the amount of 
$141.50 inflicted, out of which, $65 was paid. 
Expenditure. 
Vote, ... 
$4,000 00 
Salaries, 
Buildings, 
Uniform, 
Miscellaneous, ... ■ - 
... $2,748 17 
871 28 
147 00 
226 77 
Balance, 
$6 78 
Revenue . 
Encroachment, ... 
Sales of Forest Produce, ... 
... $ 15 00 
470 00 
$485 00 
HENRY N. RIDLEY, 
Director of Gardens and Forests, S. S~ 
