2 
da mars and other economic exhibits transferred there with part of the Herbarium. 
Unfortunately this work could not be continued as the building was very damp and the 
roof leaked very badly. The old glass hous<- was pulled down as all the wood work 
was rotten- and the rebuilding of it commenced, but had to be stopped for want of 
funds. In the orchid house the coral-rock tables were reduced in height and repaired, 
and the building turned into a flower-house or conservatory and kept very bright 
throughout the year with orchids and flowering shrubs and herbs, proving very attrac- 
tive to the public. 
A number of the drains were rebricked and repaired, but a good deal more is 
requisite in this work. The remaining mud-drains should be all bricked, especially 
those round the band-stand, but funds do not permit of this. Considerable difficulty 
was experienced in getting an efficient mason for the available funds and indeed neither 
of the two employed were found to be at all satisfactory and had to be discharged. 
The long road up to the band-stand and the road to Rogie through the Garden’s 
jungle were remetalled completely and many of the other roads repaired or patched. 
A brick wall with iron railings was erected from the main entrance to the Office 
entrance by the Public Works Department, which is a great improvement. 
At the request of the Municipality, a band of jungle along the TyersaJJ Road 
was cleared away for a width of 15 feet and a length of four hundred yards, so as to 
open up this road, and the angle opposite Tyersall entrance was widened. 
A number of the Garden seats were repaired or remade and more are nearly 
finished. 
The plants in the large plant-house were re-arranged and many were re-potted, and 
others replaced by finer specimens. At one end of the house a collection of economic 
plants was arranged to show the various plants used for the production of rubbers, 
fibres, spices, etc. Opposite these were arranged a complete set of Dracamas and 
Cordy lines and on the sides series of Dieffenbachias , Aglaonemas and Cyclanthacese. 
One block was filled with Anthuriums , Philodendrons and Alocasias ; another contains 
ferns, nmoug which are chiefly noticeable splendid plants of Stenoloma chinends \ 
Asplenium scandens and Brainea ins ignis with many other rare and curious species. 
The S el a o in Alas occupy one side of the house, and a very complete collection of 
Crotons is arranged at one end. The Bromeliads , Pandani , Cycadex, and Comferas 
are all grouped in different parts of the house. A very complete series of palms 
including many very rare species fills one side block. All these plants are well spaced 
and not overcrowded so that they can be well seen. 
A s'eries of tuberous rooted Begonias was purchased, and some of them flowered 
well and lasted a long time in bloom, but the dealer who supplied them would perhaps 
have done, better to supply commoner kinds than the high-class strains received, as 
these plants are not easy to grow here. 
A number of Caladium bulbs were also purchased and there was a good show of 
them. Some very fine strains of Begonia were presented by Mr. SANDER, but unfortun- 
ately were sent by the ship Malacca which was seized by the Russians, and when the 
plants were at length obtained most were dead. 
The flower beds were well manured all over the Gardens, and the nursery beds dug 
deeply over and manured, and the result was a fine display of herbaceous and half 
shrubby plants through the year in spite of the drought. Some ornamental water lilies 
were received from Kew Gardens, and were planted in the lake in baskets being 
gradually moved into deeper -water as they grew stronger. Many commenced flower- 
ing very soon and make an attractive display especially in .the early morning. 
The island on the lake was thoroughly cleared of the large bushes of Wornna^ and 
masses of Flagellaria so as to show up the magnificent plants of Pandanus Kaida , 
Oncosperma and rattans, the ground beneath was turled and some Bougainvilleas and 
Arundo Donax variegata planted to give a touch of colour. 
All the lakes were cleared of weeds, a work that took some time as the rapidity of 
growth of EnhydriaSy U tricularia exoleta and Blyxa, produced an enormous mass of 
vegetation in a very short period. 
The small wood at the upper end of the lake was thinned out, and the clearing of 
the rockery behind commenced, but this work remains to be finished in 1905. 
The extremely dry weather for a considerable portion of the year, entailed a great 
deal of work in watering, and for this purpose it was necessary to employ water-carts at 
a considerable expense to convey water from the lake to the plant-house. A scheme 
for laying in water by pipes from a Municipal main was submitted to Government, but 
was not proceeded with. 
