/ 
$ c - 
4*627.26' 
6.716.47 
614.42 
Total ... $11,958.15 
Economic Gardens. 
A considerable tract of land lying, along the Cluny Road was felled and stumped 
to plant Para rubber on it. This land lies between two blocks of Para rubber and 
had many years ago been planted up with Merbau, Inga Saman, Calophyllurn 
inophyllum, Cedrela Toona, and Mesua ferrea, with a few other trees. The whole 
had grown into a dense scrub of secondary growth, all of whirh was cleared out 
leaving the more valuable trees. The Calophyllurn is useless for foresting in this 
way, and had made little growth, nor were the Inga Saman much better. Owing to 
the difficulty of getting labour this work was not quite finished by the end of the 
year. 
On the hill behind the policemen's quarters the trees were thinned and Castilloa 
planted through the wood, and outside along its edge, to compare the growth of this 
plant with and without shade. 
A piece of secondary jungle along the Cluny Road between the cooly lines and 
the entrance to the lower gardens was thinned an 1 planted through with Gutia perchar. 
Dichop sis oblongifolia and also D. obovata. 
The toad from the Dalvey entrance to the main entrance through the garden was 
widened, strong drainpipes put in the culverts and kept in good condition as a riding 
road, and has been very popular. Beds were made and planted with Cotton, 
and a number of new vegetables were cultivated together with several species of 
Ocimum including the mosquito plant, Ocimum viride. Experiments made with these 
especially the last mentioned proved their complete uselessness in driving away Mos- 
quitoes. Ramie beds were renewed and the stock replanted, and a new bed of 
Patchouli under partial shade was made. 
The experiments in manuring Para rubber were continued, the plants bring 
planted out in beds manured with different kinds of manure. The experiments con- 
firmed those made on pot plants in the previous year — those manured with cow-dung 
making the greatest growth and those with burnt earth and leaves came next, while 
lime appeared to injure the plant. A number of plants of Para Rubber were manured 
also with different kinds of phosphate manures, but no very apparent result has yet 
appeared. 
A* number of Para Rubber trees well grown were mulched with cut grass, as an 
experiment but the results of this will not be shown for some time. 
The most important experiments were thos • made by tapping the adult Para 
rubber trees. Experiments were made as to the best method of cutting the tree with 
the least injury, in the flow of latex as taken from different heights on the tree, at 
different times and under different weathers, also as to preparing the rubber from the 
latex. A quantity of rubber prepared in the Gardens, 143 tbs was sold to various 
buyers at home who spoke highly of it, and gave an average price of 4 shillings a 
pound for biscuit and 3 shillings for scrap. Samples of well prepared rubber, were 
given to various planters and others interested in the business and some specimens 
were sent to the Imperial Institute and to Kew. Latex was supplied to the Govern- 
ment Analyst for examination and analysis. 
Experiments were also made in the acidity or alkalinity of all laticiferous trees 
in the Gardens, bv which it was shown that Para rubber latex was unique in posses- 
sing a distinctly alkaline latex. 
The account of these experiments was published in the Agricultural Bulletin. 
During the progress of the experiments in tapping a large number of residents, 
planters, and others came to see the work carried out. During the year 94,235 seeds 
and 12,454 plants of Para rubber were supplied to planters. 
The crop of seed was very irregular this year, probably due to the irregularity of 
the weather (or the past two years. Many of the trees fruited very late, and some 
apparently not at all. 
Probably for similar reasons the fruit crop, especially Durians and Mangosteens, 
was very short this year. 
Expenditure. 
Wages of Coolies, &c. 
Bills 
Balance 
