4 
Knuth, P.™ Bloemen biologische inededeeling aus den tropen ; presented by the 
Author. 
Preyer, Axel— Einiges uber Sudasiatische Agricultur : presented by the Author. 
Preyer, Axel. — Uber kakao-fermentation ; presented by the Author. 
Urban, J. — Vorgeschichte des Neuen kgl. Botanisch Gartens zu Dahlem-steglitz ; 
presented by the Author. 
Christ, H. — Elaphoglossum Bangii ; presented by the Author. 
,, Spicilegium pteridologicum Austro-Braziliense. 
„ Aspidium munchii. 
„ Filices setciouenses. 
,, Die Farn flora der Osttiche Riviera. 
Raciborski — Fame von Tagal. 
Agricultural Imports and Exports 1897 ; presented by U. S. A. Government. 
Our Foreign Trade 1892-1901, 
Lloyd. — Mycological notes. 
Arden, S — Report on Para Rubber, Selangor. 
King, Sir George.— Materials for the Flora of the Malay Peninsula (continuation). 
Report of Agricultural Experiment Station ; presented by U. S. A. Government of 
the University of Wisconsin. 
Moore, R. A. — Oatsmut in Wisconsin. 
Mohr — over het Oopten van Delie Tabak. 
Kramer, Dr. j. G. — Ground Analyses. . 
Koningsberger, J. C. — De Zoogdieren van Java. 
Proceedings of the Central Indigenous Drugs Committee of India — Vol. 1 ; pre- 
sented by Government of India. 
Niederlein, G.— Ressources vegetales des Colonies Francaises ; presented by the 
Author. 
Ferguson, M. C. — Germination of the spores of Agaricus Campestris. 
Green, A. O.— Tasmanian Timbers ; presented by the Author. 
Medley Wood, J.— Natal plants, Vol. 3 ; presented by the Author. 
Wilde man, — Illustrations de la Flore du Congo ; presented bv the Author. 
Kearney, Th.— Report on Botanical Survey of the Dismal Swamp region ; pre- 
sented by U. S. A. Government. 
Coulter and Rose— Monograph of the North American Umbelliferse ; presented by 
U. S. A. Government. 
Lyon, W. S. — A primer on the Cultivation of Sugar-cane ; presented by Philippine 
Bureau of Agriculture. 
Engler— Der Pflanzenreich (Purchased) 
Hannam, W. J.— Textile Fibres of Commerce » 
Blume, C. — Bijdragen tot de Flora van Nederlandsche India: Tabellen 
en Platen v. d Jav. Orchideen >> 
De Sturler, W.— Catalogue des especes de Bois de l’Archipel des In- 
de Orientales »> 
Hagen, Dr. B— Die Pflanzen und Thierwelte von Deli 
Scheffer, R. H. C. C— Observationes Phytographicae III. 
M Sur quelques Plant NouveHes » 
Choisy, J. D. — Plantse Javanicae . » 
Miquel, F. A. G. — Analecta Botanica » 
Warburg — Monsunia Vol. 1. ” 
Rodrigues, J. Barbosa — As Heveas >> 
Botanical Magazine, Journal of the Linnean Society, Indian Gardening and Plan- 
ting Gardeners Chronicle. Tropical Agriculturist, Dictionnaire Iconographique des 
Orchidees. , r, , f 
The following journals and reports were also presented —Journal of the Board o 
Agriculture, The Indian Forester, Journal of the Imperial Institute, The Chemist and 
Druggist, Botanical Survey of India, Journal of the Department of Agriculture s of VV Aus- 
tralia^, Queensland Agricultural Journal, Agricultural Journal of the Cape of Good Hope, 
Jamaica Bulletin, Saigon Bulletin, Kew Bulletin, Trinidad, West Indies, Ceylon, Annals 
of the Buitenzorg Gardens, Land record NorthWest Provinces, Bulletin of the Kolom- 
aal Museum te Haarlem, Journal d’ Agriculture Tropicale, Revue des Culture Colomales 
Tropenflanzer, The Pharmaceutical Review, Bulletin du Jardin Colonial, Agricultural 
News (Barbados), Agricultural Ledger (India), Bulletin of the University of Wisconsin, 
Planting opinion of India, Bulletin Economique, Acti Horti Petropohtam, Experi- 
mental Station Record (U. S. A.), Bulletin de la Chambre d’ Agriculture, Annales du 
