4 
(previously thoroughly established in tubs) when placed in the open lake failed to 
grow and gradually disappeared. Another attempt will be made to establish this 
plant as its flowers are of exceptional beauty. 
As the YVormias on the small island in the upper lake had grown to such an 
extent as to completely hide the curious aerial roots of Pan dan us Kalda, it was found 
necessary to severely prune them. It is a debatable point whether all or at least 
a large part of the Wormias ought not to be removed from this part of the Garden as 
their roots spread rapidly and are gradually filling up the lake. 
Advantage was taken of the prolonged drought to deepen the lower lake. 
Owing to its surroundings this lake has never been a great success and it is doubtful 
if the deepening carried out this year is of a permanent nature as the lake readily 
silts up again owing to the fact that one of the sewers from the main road empties a 
large part of its sand and rubbish into it. A large quantity of the mud and soil from 
the lake was used in' strengthening the banks while the rest was stored for future use 
as it was found to be extremely rich in humus. This soil when mixed with a 
little sand has been largely used as a mulch and also as a compost for potpalms 
yielding excellent results. 
Troublesome water weeds in the upper Garden lake were removed as in former 
years. As there are few suitable places tor climbers to be seen to the best advantage, 
tall growing palms were utilised for this purpose by placing wirenetting round the stem 
to a heiMitTof 6 or 8 feet. A pleasing effect was thus obtained and during the coming 
year an Endeavour will be made to utilise many more palms for this purpose. 
The only remaining specimens of Michelia Ckampaca and Manicaria saccifera 
died and were removed. 
Owing to the drought, the keeping of beds and borders bright with annuals, etc., 
was a matter of considerable difficulty. Dahlias were planted in beds this year for the 
first time and thoroughly justified themselves. Mention may also be made in this 
respect of Lobelia syphilitica which has proved a valuable acquisition. 
Many plants were severely pruned during the year and most of the plants thus 
treated have improved greatly in appearance and floriferousness. 
Economic Section. 
The Curator was absent from January 31st to June 4th. 
With the gradually increased area of previous years very little new ground has 
been opened and indeed, none could have been attempted except for extra labour paid 
from revenue by sales of rubber and lubber seeds. All the rubber ground lies on 
shallow soil with water in most parts at one foot below the surface and, as wiU be 
understood, in such situations weeds are prolific. Apart from other considerations it is 
necessary that this land be kept clean so as to clean-pick fallen rubber seeds. For this 
purpose— excepting two men in the nursery— the rest of the permanent band of 32 
men were employed whenever available. 
To keep the arboretum in fair order eight mowers were estimated as necessary, 
but for several months during the year the band was included with the rest of the 
employes on the rubber ground. 
For collecting and packing rubber seeds ; cultivation of other crops and 
maintenance of plots ; general maintenance including repairs, damages— men have 
been drawn from maintenance work as the necessity occurred, - 
Despite the phenomenal drought which necessitated a small band of water 
carriers considerable damage was done in January and December of the year 
under review by floods, through the loss of 60 Para rubber trees mostly large trees, in 
fact, some of the oldest, in low-lying parts of the garden. 
New work includes clearing, draining and opening a small area (which it is 
intended to extend as labour permits) about two acres for the reception of various 
economic plants and fruit trees. 
The rubber plot between Cluny and *Bukit Timah Roads, containing over 
cqo trees planted 22 feet by 20 feet has been improved by opening cross drams 
between the rows of trees. Altogether 37 drains 2 feet by I foot six inches averaging 
80 yards long were completed. The mere excavation of* soil was a light task but the 
amount of hard wood cut through and removed represented occupation tor a long 
time with a small band of men. 
Owino- to the paucity of fruit crops and consequent difficulty of obtaining seeds, 
the stock of fruit trees had become low but advantage had been taken of the 1911 
abundant crop and ail the fruit seedlings most usually in demand have been re-stock© 
