i 9 
Merlemau Reserve. 
16. Twenty miles from Malacca, situated between the districts of Merlemau and 
Chinchin. Boundaries extend eight miles, area computed at 4,000 acres. 
17. The northern boundary has been re-opened during the year, but, owing to 
the deep swamp, it is impossible to keep the boundaries in the direction of the Kesang 
River in order. . , , 
Much good will be effected in this reserve when the Kesang River has been 
cleared. 
18 The western portion of the reserve is well wooded, and some first class 
timber skirts the Chinchin Road, which passes through the centre of the reserve. 
The most remarkable are 
Tembusu (Fagroea peregrine), 
Petaling ( Strombosia javanica), 
Meranti (Hopea meranti) , 
Kayu M inyak (Dipterocarpus lasvis) , 
Gambar daun, ... ...» 
Rambei daun, 
Ayer Pdnas Reserve . 
in. Fifteen miles from Malacca and situated between the districts of Durian 
Tunggal and Kesang. Area 4,000 acres. The reserve is chiefly demarcated by the 
public roads. 
20. Demarcation of the western boundary of the new reserve has been com- 
pleted during the year. 
2' The reserve is wooded chiefly with young forest, except the roadsides, where 
some first class timber exists. 
The most notable are: — • 
Resak (Vatica rassak), 
Sepete (Parkia Roxburghii) , 
Jelutong (Dyera costulata) , ... 
Gambar daun, 
Meranti (Hopea meranti) , ... 
Kayu Mmyak (Dipterocapus leevis) , 
Kranji (Dialur/i indicum), ... 
Bukit Panchur Reserve. 
22. Sixteen miles from Malacca, situated between the districts of Machap, 
Durian Tunggal and Alor Gajah, has eleven miles of boundaries, and an area of 
3,640 acres. 
23. The hill-chain reaches an elevation of 889 feet, and, besides protecting the 
the sources of springs in the backbone of the Settlement, it is well wooded with 
young forest, and is in the centre of a largely cleared district. 
24. An abandoned estate now included within the reserve will require some 
time before re-wooding itself by natural reproduction, and some artificial assistance 
may be necessary on so large an area. 
» 
25. The most notable trees are : — 
Merebau (Afzelia palembanica) , 
Kelat (Eugenia zeylanica) , 
Petdling (Strombosia javanica), . 
Kempas (Kumpussia malaccensis) * *... 
Meranti (Hopea meranti), 
Brisu Reserve . 
26. Twenty-five miles from Malacca, and situated between the districts of 
Sungei Ba.ru, Lubok China, and Brisu. Has nine miles of boundaries, and an area of 
2,247 acres. 
rare. 
fairly abundant, 
rare. 
fairly abundant, 
do. 
fairly abundant, 
do. 
do. 
do. 
abundant. 
do. 
fairly abundant. 
fairly abundant, 
do. 
abundant. 
do. 
fairly abundant, 
do. 
