5 
in several of the new cleared portions of the ground but came up badly. Dal 
( Cajanus indicus ) was planted on the top of the hill where Coffee used to be cultivated 
with a view of improving the soil. Though this plant grows well and becomes large, 
it fruits very poorly, otherwise it would be a valuable addition to our annual crops. 
There were a number of trees added to the Arboretum and a fair stock of fruit 
trees, and other trees of economic value kept up. 
Seeds of the Manicoba Rubber, Manihot piauhyensis and M. dichotoma were 
received from Kew, germinated well and were planted out. 
The Rubber Experiments were continued during the year, and some Experiments 
were made with Chemical Manures. 
Plants and Seeds Exported. 
The demand for Para Rubber seed still continued, for the African and West 
Indian Colonies chiefly, 330,345 seeds were exported. The recipients reported very 
well of the germination of the seeds after long voyages. Ten thousand three hundred 
plants of Para Rubber were also disposed of mostly in the Island of Singapore. Seeds 
of the Manicoba rubber were also sent to Penang, Taiping, Christmas Island and 
Johore. 
A considerable number of plants of economic use were supplied to Christmas 
Island, and the Lighthouses were supplied with fruit trees and vegetable seed. 
Ramie was in demand again owing to the formation of the Malayan Ramie 
Company, which is establishing its plantations in Borneo. Three thousand plants 
were supplied, and the results are reported as extremely good. Three varieties were 
sent, the one known as Singapore strain giving the best results. Five hundred and 
thirty other fibre plants were supplied to other cultivators. Spices were in small 
demand. Six hundred and three plants of Nutmegs, Cloves, Vanilla and 
Cinnamomum were sent out. Shade trees, four hundred with twelve pounds of 
Albizzia, and about a thousand fruit trees, were disposed of, and 150 Gutta Percha 
plants exported. 
Twelve pounds of Brucea seed were supplied to Messrs. BURROUGHS and 
Wellcome, and a quantity of bark of Roucheria Griffithiana to Buitenzorg for 
investigation. 
Experiments in packing Durian seed for export to long distances were made. 
This seed is a very bad traveller, and though in much demand for other Colonies it 
seemed impossible to get it to them in a fit state for germination. A number of seeds 
were sent to West Afiica packed in various ways. It was found thus they travelled 
best dry with no packing at all, over 90 per cent germinating on arrival. 
Exhibitions. 
A number of specimens of Rubber, living plants of Hevm braziliensis , trunks of 
trees showing tapping, and specimens of flowers and fruits, etc., of Para Rubber were 
sent to the International Exhibition in London in the Autumn where they attracted 
much remark. Mr. R. Derry at home on leave represented the Colony and took 
charge of the exhibits. 
The Agricultural Exhibition was held this year at Kuala Lumpur, and the Director 
visited it. 
Coconut Trees Inspection. 
The red beetle seems to have got quite scarce among the estates and most of the 
harm is now done by the black one. These, however, seem quite to have disappeared 
from the vast accumulations of sawdust at the sawmills in Rochore, where they 
formerly bred in myriads and gave some trouble as it was impossible to destroy the 
immense amount of sawdust, in which they bred. Much of this ground has now been 
built over, and the beetles seem to have entirely disappeared ; another kind of beetle 
was found in some trees with the black beetle ; a large species of Elater. Only a few 
were found and these had apparently entered the burrows of the Oryctes to feed and 
are probably harmless. 
» 
