methods of cultivation and preparation of vegetable products. Among the latter 
were M. DUPONT sent by the Seychelles Government to study tropical products, with a 
view to introducing them into the Seychelles. Mr. MERRILL, Government Botanist for 
the U. S. A. Government at Manila ; M. BoiS of the Paris Museum ; Mr. USTERI of 
Zurich, Mr. NlTOBE, Chief of the Agricultural Bureau, Formosa; Prof. Comes, School 
of Agriculture, Portici ; Dr. P. De Tavera, Member of Philippines Commission ;'H. 
FOUKOUBA, Director of the Imperial Garden, Shinjicou, Japan ; Prof. T. Tanaka, Central 
Experiment, Station, Tokyo; Dr. Volz (Sweden) and Sir E. SATOW. 
The Regimental bands played as usual on moonlight nights and on afternoons, 
and were highly appreciated. 
Upkeep of Buildings & c 
Xo new buildings were constructed but repairs and alterations were made to the 
cooly lines, the large plant-house and the smaller buildings.. Some of the drains by 
the roads were reconstructed and more will have to be done. At the request of some 
members of the public: the paths on the bandstand were covered with a layer of white 
sand for the benefit of the children vfho play there which gave much satisfaction to 
them and their parents, though by no means beneficial to the grass. 
All garden seats have been repaired during the year and fresh seats purchased. 
Aviaries. 
In accordance with the Government instructions all the larger animals were dis- 
posed of, some being sold. The deer were sent to Cocos Island to resupply the stock 
fomerlv there. Only a few of the smaller animals and birds are now kept, chiefly 
those which have been here many years. No attempt will be made to add any more; 
indeed a number of animals offered by various persons were declined. 
The old wire netting on two sides of the monkey’s cage was replaced by iron 
bars at a cost of $260. 
One bamboo rat {Rhizomys) was presented by the Hon. R. N. Bland, Malacca. 
One pelican (. P elec anus sp.) captured in Singapore was purchased. 
One Hornbill ( Berenicornis Comatus ) was presented by a passenger. 
One squirrel ( Sciurus Prevosti) presented by Mr. A. D. Machado, 
Two silver pheasants {Euplocamus N vcthemerus) presented by Mr. Falshaw. 
One sparrow-hawk presented by Mr. Resting. 
The fine peacock was found dead one morning, having apparently been killed 
Yy a wound under the eye given by a pheasant in the next cage. 
Plants and seeds received. 
There were 332 packets of seeds, and 1,528 plants received as presents or in ex 
■change from various Institutions and private persons. I he contributors were Royal 
Gardens, Kew ; Botanic Gardens, Sierra Leone, Uganda, Calcutta, Ootacamund, 
Penang, Jamaica, Melbourne, Nagpur, Trinidad, Cape Town, Sydney, Bermuda, 
Berlin, Par Es Salam. The Agri-horticultural Societies of Calcutta and Madras, U. 
S. A. Department of Agriculture, Messrs. J. C. Harvey (Mexico,) M. Prudhomme 
(Madagascar), Dr. Schlechter (New Guinea), Messrs. Boehmer (Japan), Mr. E. S. A. 
Cohen (Java), Mr. Micholitz (East Indian^Drchids), Mr. J. C. Pereira (Orchids), R, 
Little, Mrs. O’Sullivan, Mr. S. P. Chatterjee (Calcutta), Mr. Gunn, Mr. St. V. B. Down, 
Mr. Jenkins ^Bangkok), Messrs. Herb and Wulle, Mr. Choa Kim Keat, Mr. F. 
Pears (Muai), Mr. R. Derry (Perak Orchids). 
Plants and seeds sent out. 
'There were sent out from the Gardens to various institutions and private persons 
775 packets of seeds and 2,181 Plants, besides which there were sold to various pur- 
chasers 829 Ornamental plants, 4,765 Economic plants, 125,1 10 Para rubber seeds and 
100 packets of various seeds. 
Seeds and plants in exchange were sent to the Gardens of Kew, Buitenzorg, 
Calcutta, Saigon, Bermuda, Madagascar, Uganda, U. S. Forest Bureau, Manila, 
Brisbane, Seychelles, Rockhampton, Ahuri, Trivandrum, British New Guinea (peases 
of plants), Sydney, Ceylon, British Guiana, Calcutta, Trinidad, Penang, Melbourne, 
Hongkong, Bangalore, Mauritius, Jamaica, Adelaide, Rangoon, Zanzibar, Fravancore, 
Old Calabar, Baroda, Barbados, Malta, Kuala Lumpor, Agri-horticultural Society 
of Calcutta and Madras, British Legation, Bangkok, British North Borneo Government, 
Paris Museum, Forest Department and Gardens, Malacca and Negri Sembilan, Expe- 
rimental Gardens, Batu Tiga, Administrator of Fiji, Kapalgoo Mission, Port Darwin,. 
