7 
Woolley, P. J.— Report on Bacillus Violaceus, presented by the United States 
(America) Government. 
Herzog, Dr. M. — A fatal infection by Bacillus aureus fcetidus, presented by the 
United States (America) Government. 
Herzog, Dr. M.— Forest Manual of the Philippine Islands, presented by the 
United States (America) Government. 
King, Sir George.— Materials for a Flora of the Malay Peninsula (continued). 
The following books were purchased : — 
Lignum Aloes by Prof. Dr. J. Moeller. 
Genera Aroidearum by H. Schott. 
Colonial Reports on Seychelles. 
Engler’s Pflanzenreich (continuation). 
Nicholson's Dictionary of Gardening (supplement). 
Index Kewensis (supplement). 
Weber's Chemistry of Rubber. 
Nicholson’s Tropica! Agriculturist. 
King’s Text Book of Physics of Agriculture. 
Journal of the Linnean Society. 
Botanical Magazine. 
Gardener's Chronicle. 
Indian Gardening and Planting. 
India-Rubber Journal. 
Tropical Agriculturist. 
The following journals, etc., have been presented by their respective Institutions: — • 
Jamaica Bulletin, Dominica Agriculturist, Journal of the Department of Agricul- 
ture, West Australia, Bulletin du j-ardin Botanique (Brussels), Annual Report of 
the Forest Department of Australia, Acti Horti Petropolitani, Planting Opinion, 
Indian Forester, Pharmaceutical Review, Chemist and Druggist, Journal D’ 
Agriculture Tropicale, Agricultural News of the West Indies, Journal of the Board 
of Agriculture, Revue des Cultures Coloniales, Bulletin de la Societe d’ Etudes Coloni- 
ales, Bulletin Economique de Madagascar, Agricultural Journal of the Cape of Good 
Hope, Bulfetin Economique de 1’Indo-Chine, Bulletin Economique de Hanoi, 
Trinidad Bulletin, Report on the Agricultural Work in British Guiana, Report of the 
Board of Agriculture, British Guiana, United States Experimental Station Records, 
Udaipur Garden Report, leones Bogorienses, Technical Reports of the Imperial 
Institute, Hawai Bulletin, Barbados Garden Report, Jamaica Garden Report, Trivan- 
drum Garden Report, Transvaal Agricultural Journal, India Rubber World, Kevv 
Bulletin (Appendix), West Indian Bulletin, Smithsonian Institution Report, Missouri 
Garden Report, Ceylon Garden Report, Natal Garden Report, Hongkong Garden 
Report, Sahaianpur Garden Report, Tobago Botanic Station Report, Proceedings of 
the Agri-HorticuUural Society of Madras, Records of the Botanical Survey of India, 
Trade and Commerce Report of Canada, Porto Rico Garden Report, Report on Indian 
Museum, Grenada Garden Report, Uganda Garden Report, New York Bulletin, 
Madras Forest Department Annual Report, Ceylon Circulars, Merck’s Annual Report, 
Agricultural Ledgers, Bulletin de 1’ Institute Botanique de Buitenzorg, Queensland 
Agricultural Journal, Calcutta Garden Report, Report of Calcutta Cinchona Plantations, 
Bulletin of the KoloniaaJ Museum of Haarlem, Der Tropenpflanzer, Annales du Musde 
du Congo, Meteorological Observations of Zomba, Annual Garden Reports of the 
Botanic Gardens, Gold Coast, Lagos, Zanzibar, Sierra Leone, Seychelles, Mauritius, 
Mysore, Lucknow, Buitenzorg, Fiji, New South Wales, Adelaide, Brisbane, Melbourne, 
British Honduras, Antigua and Bermuda. 
Publications. 
The account of the Gesneraceae of the Malay Peninsula for the Flora was com- 
pleted and is being published in the Journal of the Asiatic Society, Straits Branch, 
and papers on new plants of the Peninsula and of the surrounding countries were 
also published therein during the year. Many of these plants are in cultivation in 
the Botanic Gardens. The Artist continued to make drawings of plants suitable 
for publication in the Flora. 
