very complete collection of the plants from the upper ranges was marie, including one 
new genus of Rutaceas and many new species. 1 he flora showed a marked aihnity 
with that of Mount Kinabulu in Borneo. Besides the dried plants a considerable 
number of living plants were brought down. Unfortunately the plant collector broke 
down with fever on reaching an altitude of 3,000 feet and had to be sent back, together 
with the Director's boy who was also too id to proceed ; but the loan of two Dyak 
collectors was obtained from Mr. Robinson and these proved indispensable. 
The Director also visited several rubber estates in Johore to advise in cases of 
outbreak of disease. 
Herbarium, 
Besides the collection made in the expedition above mentioned, plants were 
received from -M OI-I A MED Aniff, 206 from Lankavvi Island and Gunong Kerbau, from 
Berlin 320 specimens from German East Africa, from Calcutta 78, and from Manila 
132 Philippine plants. 
There were distributed to Kew 543 specimens, to the British Museum 355, to 
Calcutta 102, to Berlin 28, to Buitenzorg 57, to Dr. Christ (ferns 13), to the 
Rev. W. Lilly 37 mosses, and a collection of economic plants to the Tokio Botanic 
Gardens, Japan. Specimens were sent on loan for examination to Dr. Beccari (palms), 
to Mr. BurrILL of Calcutta ( Dioscoreacese ) and some specimens to Buitenzorg, 
Publications. 
The “Agricultural Bulletin" was published regularly throughout the year, but Owing 
to the uncertainty of the future after the retirement of the Director, it was found 
necessary to announce to the subscribers that it would cease at the end of the year.* 
This is regrettable as it had become a journal very much in demand and there was a 
continuous rise in the number of subscribers. A pamphlet on the history of the rise 
of the rubber industry in Malaya by the Director with additional statistics by 
Mr. LEWTON Brain was written and published at the Rubber Exhibition in London, 
and over five thousand copies were disposed of at the Exhibition. A paper on the flora 
of Lower Siam was published in a volume of the Straits Branch of the Royal Asiatic 
Society by the Director and papers on the floraof Pulau Adang and on the plams 
collected at Gunong Tahan, and one on new and rare plants of the Malayan region 
and on the plants collected by Mr. Moulton at Batu Lawi in Borneo were completed 
and sent lor printing. The Handbook on Tropical Agriculture dealing with spices 
was finally revised for publishing by Messrs. Macmillan. Figures and descriptions 
of three plants sent from the Botanic Gardens of Singapore and Penang and flowered 
for the fit st time in Europe, were published in “ Botanical Magazine" during the year. 
They were: — P sender ant he mum Malaccense , Torenia atropurpurea , Ridl., and 
Cirrkopetalum longissimum , Ridl. 
A very fine climber which had been over twenty-five years in the plant house 
without name, and supposed to be Ckonemorphi macrophylla was by Colonel Prain 
identified as one of the three species confused under this name, and was named Ch. 
Rheedei in a paper on the Chouemorphas published in the Bulletin. It was a native of 
Ceylon and Southern India and Ch. penangensis new species from Penang. 
A new fungus discovered on fruits of pepper i.i Singapore and Borneo was sent to 
Kew and named ColLetotrichum mcator by Mr. Massee. The usual course of 
lectures on botany to the medical students could not be given this year owing to the 
absence of the Director on leave during the session, 
Beds and Borders a 
There has been art increasing demand for palms, flowering and ornamental 
shrubs thoughout the year and consequently much time was occupied in lifting and 
packing those plants. A good supply of such plants is being maintained, but this has 
not been such an easy matter as in former years owing to the exceptional drought 
experienced. 
One of the largest plants of Brownea grandiceps was killed by the persistent 
attacks of a shot-borer. Repeated attempts wfcre made to save the tree by applications 
of coal-tar and a mixture of Jeyes fluid and soft soap consecutively but without avail. 
As all the roots and branches were burnt on the spot, no other tree in the immediate 
vicinity seems to have been attacked. 
A large selection of Nymphaeas were obtained from Messrs. Dreer of 
Philadelphia and planted in the Garden Lake, from which a good display was obtained 
during the earlier months of the year. Hvdrocleis commersoni or Water Poppy 
The Bulletin ” has been continued, 
