i3 • 
as far as we have yet heard, failed entirely. It seems now certain that gambier seed 
has a very short duration of life (the Chinese say only 24 hours), that is, it must be 
sown as soon as ripe. Thus all attempts to send seed to distant colonies must prove 
futile. Unfortunately, too, young plants are very bad travellers, and though many have 
been sent out to different establishments, few appear to survive the voyage. More 
cases of as healthy plants as possible will be sent out this year to the various colonies 
where it is likely to thrive. 
Drugs . — Several plants common or easily cultivatable here are now in some re- 
quest, as medicines. Among them is Euphorbia pilulifera , known here as Kroma susu. 
The young leaves gathered before flowering are dried, and the extract is used for 
asthma, bronchitis, influenza, &c. The plant is exceedingly common as a weed in 
waste grounds and other spots. A notice of the value of this drug by Mr. Thos. 
Christy, of London, was published in the'Straits Gazette , but although one cultivator 
has sent a supply home, no report has as yet been received as to the value - of the 
sample. 
There is also a considerable demand for papaya-milk, used for diptheria, wounds, 
ulcers, &c. To obtain it, slits are made in the stem and young fruits and the milk 
as it exudes is collected upon glassplates. 
Cassia alata is well known to the Malays as a drug of use in skin disease. It 
has not yet had a fair trial in England, but it is reputed to be valuable in cases of ring- 
worm, &c. A quantity of dried leaves were sent to England, but no report has yet 
come to hand as to their value. 
Neray bark (Carapa moluccana), a common mangrove tree, has a local reputation 
for dysentery. Some extract made with alcohol, appeared to have no valuable pro- 
perties according to Mr. CHRISTY, who reported on it. A bundle of bark was sent 
to him later to examine, but no report has yet bden received. 
Sarsaparilla . — A case of plants of Jamaica sarsaparilla was received from 
Jamaica a short time ago. There seems no reason why it should not do well here 
but the drug seems falling into disfavour. 
Kachubon ^ and Gadong . — In answer to a request published in the Straits 
Settlements Gazette for native plants with poisonous qualities, seeds of Kachubong 
and a plant of Gadong were received from Mr. Lister. The former is Datura metel, 
a well known and dangerous poison plant very common here in a half wild state; 
there is but little demand for it. 
Gadong is a species of Dioscorea, perhaps D. deemonum, reported very poison- 
ous. The tuber sent though alive shews no signs yet of growth. Nothing is known 
of its qualities, but the Malays say it is very poisonous. 
28. Revenue and Expenditure of the Forest Department, Singapore, for the 
year 18 go. 
Revenue. Expenditure. 
* 
$ 
$ c- 
Government vote, 4,170 83, 
. . . ’Salaries, 
2,244 44 
Transport, 
798 77 
Allowances,... 
158 70 
Miscellaneous, 
859 5 1 
Balance, 
109 41 
$4* 1 7° 83 
f4,i7° 83 
]Sf 0TE . — The salaries of the Forest Watchmen and the Experimental Forest 
Nursery were paid out of this vote up to November, and December's salaries were 
paid out of the 1890 vote, the balance f 109.41 being lost. 
