broke thr.ough the partition of the next compartment. A common monkey was born 
in the aviary on the 2nd of September ; the mother having previously given birth to 
two others in the same place in 1892 and 1893, respectively. A young deer was also 
born in the Gardens on the 30th March. Two young tiger cubs from Pahang were 
deposited by His Excellency the Governor pending arrangements for their transfer to 
the Zoological Gardens, London. 
* # Plant Houses. 
5. Extensive repairs were carried out in the large plant house and orchid house 
adjoining. Many of the cross beams and their upright supports have been renewed : 
these ballow wood beams had stood since the house was erected some twelve years 
ago. The other plant sheds have been repaired where necessary. 
* 6. Most of the plants mentioned in last year’s Report have again flowered, as well 
as several new introductions. Among the latter is a new genus (named by the Director 
“ Machadoa ”) after its discoverer, who found it in Tringganu ; it belongs to the natural 
order Commelinacew, and is a pretty little plant. A new Trichoglottis. flowered and 
was named T.zebrinh — a very handsome puqile-leaved grass. Penmsetyim was in- 
troduced from New Guinea, and proved on flowering to be P . macrostachyum. Other 
new introductions are : — Bougainvillea Sander tana , Dracaena Sander iana , Trades- 
cantia decora , new hybrid Begonias , Cypripednim Charlesworthii , Collabium nebu- 
losum , Selaginella usta, Selagmella grandis, Ar istolochia saccata , M edimlla Teys- 
mannii, PTc. Especial mention should be made of several important collections from 
Kew, including a complete set of Phyllocacti, a mixed collection of valuable economic 
plants, and 632 seeds of the cola nut. Messrs. SANDER & Co. have also contributed 
some valuable South American orchids, and mixed plants of a decorative character. 
7. An 'attempt has been made to improve the cultivation of roses, and seveial 
consignments have been received from Bangalore, Calcutta and Saharanpur. It is 
hoped that by inarching the better kinds on the stock of one of the common strong 
growing local varieties, the flowers will be kept from degenerating as they do when 
left to grow on their own roots. 
Lawn and Flower Beds. 
8 Greater attention has been paid to the cultivation of flowering plants such as 
annuals, and the beds have been kept gay with a succession of such plants as Gail- 
lardias, Zinnias, Petunias, &c. The most serviceable plants in this direction, however, 
have unquestionably been the Cannas , obtained chiefly from Mr. Curtis in Penang, 
who has been so successful in introducing and growing most of the best varieties. 
Lakes. 
q. The lakes have received the usual attention in clearing the weeds ( Utricu - 
l aria) which grow with such astonishing rapidity, and about a hundred cart-loads 
of silt were removed from the top end of the big lake. Tire Nympheas were manured 
from time to time. I am gted to be able to report the re-mtroduction of the \ ictona 
Recdalily after repeated failures. Our only plant died in 1891, and since then no pains 
have been spared to re-introduce it by seeds and young plants. Seeds were received 
from British Guiana and Kew, and a.yo.ung plant obtained from Penang, but m spite 
of every care, the latter died, and the former failed to germinate. In September last, 
our efforts were rewarded with success, several plants germinated from seeds kindly 
supplied by Dr. Treub from the famous Gardens at Buitenzorg, the largest plant is 
now' well established in the small lake near the nursery. 
* • Roads and Walks. 
10 No extensive re-metallingTias been done, but repairs have been made where 
necessary, and all the small walks around the Band-stand coated with a fresh layer 
of gravel The bridge on the new lake has been removed, the planking being rotten, 
and on the recommendation of the Superintendent of Works and Surveys the culvert 
has been replaced by cast iron pipes 2' 6" in diameter obtained from the Municipality. 
The erection of granite posts and chains along both sides of the dam has yet to be 
Economic Garden and Arboretum. 
1 1. The arboretum may now be said to be practically complete, so far as allot- 
ting the space to the various natural orders ‘is concerned. The space for the remain- 
ing* natural orders from Urticaceae were marked out and planted during the year. A 
good deal of time was taken up in turfing the ground between the trees to prevent 
the washing away of the surface soil by heavy rains, and it is found the trees grow 
