6 
Temengoh collected this }'ear was compiled and will shortly be published. A further 
instalment of the new plants of the Malay Peninsula has also been printed in the 
“Journal of the Royal Asiatic Society, Straits Branch.” 
An article on the relationship of ants to plants has been written and sent to be 
printed in the “ Annals of Botany.” In the Kew “ Bulletin ” (1909-5) Mr. G. Massee 
of Kew described 17 species of fungi new to science (Bo/eti), found in the Botanic 
Gardens, Singapore, and preserved in spirits, with coloured drawings made by the 
Garden Artist in 1907. 
A new fungus attacking the shoots of para rubber trees and eventually killing the 
tree was sent to Kew and identified by Mr. MASSEE as a species of Diplodia, and an 
account of it was published in the “ Bulletin.” 
A plate and account of Peliosanthes violacea, var. clarkii, sent to the Botanic 
Gardens, Kew, appeared in the “ Botanical Magazine.” A note on the fruiting of 
Burbidgea was also published in the “ Journal of the Straits Branch of the Asiatic 
Society.” 
The botanical lectures to the medical students were given by the Director at the 
Medical School from September to December. 
ECONOMIC GARDENS. 
Buildings- 
During the year a large rubber-curing shed was bu 4 t, several new seedling sheds 
and the old nursery sheds were also rebuilt. Xhe wood for the smaller works was 
obtained in the Gardens. All the atap buildings were re-covered. 
Extension Work. 
A considerable area was cleared and planted with a collection of leguminous 
plants, crotalarias, tephrosia, desmodiums r cajanus , clitoria , etc., all plants known to be 
valuable as nitraginous plants and suitable in various degrees for covering and 
improving the soil of rubber and other estates. There was a considerable demand for 
seeds of all these plants. 
A considerable area was prepared for pepper planting and planted through with 
betel-nuts to serve as supports. 
A path was cut round, the ground parallel to the Cluny and Bukit Tima'h Roads 
so as to get quickly round the rubber plantation to the end of that part of the Garden. 
It was hedged from the road with coca (. Erythroxyoln coca ) and Hibiscus ; a coca hedge 
was also run from the coolie lines to the entrance of the Economic Gardens. 
Maintenance. 
The greater part of the work with the small staff allowed is naturally upkeep or 
maintenance of the ground opened in an ordinarily presentable and decent condition. 
All the stock plants of sanseviera, ramie , nutmegs, cloves, gutta-percha, rattans, 
citronella and lemon grass were re-dug, cleaned, and in some cases replanted. A great 
deal of work was done in cleaning and deepening drains, planting and weeding 
intermediate crops in the plot lying between Cluny and Bukit Timah Roads, where 
there are 526 trees .of para rubber, of which many will be tappable in a year's time. 
A great deal of time w r as occupied in mowing and cutting grass under the rubber trees 
in order to gather the seed crop and also in the arboretum which had got much 
overgrown. A number of old dead or useless trees were removed and the stumps dug 
out. 
A large number of useful plants were raised from seed for export or planting out, 
and many young trees, camphor, cloves, ficus elastica , gutta-percha, etc., planted out. 
Several thousands of seeds of fruit trees and other plants in demand were planted for 
stock. 
Arboretum. 
Part of this, the section including the orders from Nyctagineas to Urticaceae , was 
manured, the trees cleaned and a number of additional ones added. The ground was 
mown also several times. But the press of the work prevented as much as being done 
here as was hoped. 
Demand. 
The chief demand for plants other than rubber was for fruit trees and ramie and 
for nitrogenous plants. With the present boom in rubber planting it is not to be 
expected that planters will pay attention to anything else. However, it is essential to 
keep up a good stock of all economic plants likely to come into demand. 
