2 
(Sciums bicolor.) presented by Mr. F. W. Christian, three Pythons (Python reticula- 
tus) presented by Messrs. Romenij, Branagan, and F. Teng Quee respectively, one 
flying fox with young, presented by Mr. Urn Koon Yang; one Binturong (Arctictis 
binturong) presented by D. H. Wise, Esq,, one Christmas Island Pigeon (Carpophaga 
_ Whartonii) presented by M. Hellier, Esq., one young red Civet cat and one long tail- 
ed monkey, presented by R. Shelford, Esq., Sarawak, two storks presented by Madame 
Gorski, and two young monkeys and three parrots from the Andamans. One young 
Berok (Macacus nemestrinus) was born in the Gardens. A female Rhinoceros procured 
by the Austrian Consul was deposited in the Gardens ; it is intended for the Zoologi- 
cal Gardens at Vienna and will be shipped there in the coming spring. A female 
specimen of the rare “ Sapi-Utan ” (Anoa depressicornis) was obtained from Celebes 
by the Museum authorities. 
8. The following animals died during the year. One (Python curtus), one 
Eagle, three Phalangers, two Kijangs, one wild cat, three Christmas Island Pigeons 
one deer, and one black swan. 
Upkeep and Buildings. 
9. The chief work under this head has been the erection of a new' plant house 
near the potting shed. It consists of seven long tables of coral 48 feet long. It 
has a ridge and furrow roof, covered with Bertam chicks obtained in Penang, 
and supported by steel rafters on brick pillars; it is a most substantial, 
structure and will last for years. It has been filled with a miscellaneous 
assortment of plants, chief of which are a named collection of our various 
palms, some of the rare ferns, and some of the most recent introductions from 
Kew. All the plants have thriven well in it. The roof of the small nepenthes house 
has been entirely renewed, as also a very large part of the Aroid and Begonia house. 
The work of keeping up of the beds, borders and shrubberies has perhaps taken up a 
greater amount of time than usual, as a special effort was made to render the gardens 
more bright and attractive with flowering plants. 
10. The drives and paths have been repaired where necessary. Of the former, 
the drive from the main entrance to the deer enclosure was entirely remetalled 
during the year. 
11. The bamboo hedge surrounding the western part of the gardens and that 
from the office to the main entrance, are not in a very creditable state, owing partly 
to their being under trees, and the soil being poor, but also to the constant breaking 
through by syces, native soldiers, etc. I should be glad to see the hedge replaced 
by a low wall surmounted by an iron railing similar to that in front of the Lunatic 
Asylum. 
Plants and Seeds. (Exchanges) 
12. Exclusive of the large consignments of plants and seeds (chiefly guttas and 
Rubbers) and the monthly supply of seeds from Messrs. Carter & Co., we 
have received during the year one hundred and sixty plants and one hundred and 
eight bags or packages of seeds. The following is a list of contributors : — 
The Royal Gardens, Kew. The Botanic Gardens, Buitenzorg, Calcutta, British 
Guiana, Saigon, Saharanpur, Madagascar. Messrs. Rauch, Von Pustau, Arden, 
and Schlechter. The Government Horticultural Gardens, Nagpur. The Tokio Plant and 
Seed Co. The Agri-Horticultural Society of India. Messrs. Herb & Wulle, Naples. 
13. Seven hundred and sixty-nine plants and eight hundred and four packages 
of seeds were sent to forty-two Institutions and individuals. 
14. Amongst the most useful plants introduced during the year were the true 
West African Rubber (Funtu-mia elastica), about 100 plants of which were raised 
from seed supplied by Mr. S. Arden, and some thousands of Gutta Sundik (Payena 
Leerii) supplied from Buitenzorg. From Kew came several species of Landolphia 
(the African Rubber plant) including two new species, Garcinia Kola, from old 
Calabar, and Mimusops Schimperi (the Persea of ancient writers), from Mada- 
gascar. From the same establishment came a collection of miscellaneous plants of 
striking interest chiefly selected by the Director Mr. H. N. Ridley. The Rt. Rev. 
Bishop Hose kindly presented a set of 25 varieties of hybrid Rhododendrons 
which he obtained at Kew. 
Plants in Flower. 
15. Most of the plants mentioned in former Reports have flowered during the 
year and the following for the first time. Kigelia pinnata (T. Africa) Exostemma 
cariboeum (W. Indies) Brunsfelsia nitida (T. America) Bulbophyllum grandiflorum 
(New Guinea.) 
