12 
Prosecutions. 
There were nineteen prosecutions in all instituted in the year, for cutting and 
removing timber from the reserves; of these, two were withdrawn, and in seventeen 
cases the persons arrested were convicted and fines to the amount of *$451 inflicted, 
of which $76 was paid. 
Expenditure for 18 go. 
Vote, 
$>4,000.00 
Salaries, 
13,044.22 
Buildings, . ... 
• ... 125.00 
Boats, 
55 °° 
Uniforms, ... 
161.00 
Miscellaneous, 
473 -n 
# 3 > 858-33 
Balance, . 141.67 
Total,. . .$>^,000.00 
H. N. RIDLEY, 
Director of Gardens and Forests , S.S. 
APPENDIX A. 
GARDENS AND FOREST DEPARTMENT*PENANG. 
Mr. C. Curtis, the Assistant Superintendent of Forests, reports as follows : — 
Forest Reserves. 
The reserved Forests in this Settlement being mainly on hill ranges in situa- 
tions where the working of timber is, for the present, undesirable, and planting to 
any great extent unnecessary, the principal duties of the department consist in pro- 
tecting these areas from the encroachment of timber cutters, squatters and fire ; 
and this has been satisfactorily performed during the year. 
2. Fifty prosecutions for cutting timber, and threfe for setting fire to Crown 
forest, were instituted, and fines to the amount of §360 imposed on the offenders. 
3. Confiscated jungle produce in connection with the above cases sold for $41. 18, 
which was duly paid in to revenue account. 
4. One mile of new boundary line and inspection paths have been opened and 
thirty miles of old boundaries re-cleared, at a cost -of $358. 
5. In order to keep a better watch on the Island of Pulau Jerejak, declared 
Reserved Forest in 1889, it w'as found necessary to purchase a native boat for the use 
of guards stationed there, as this and the north-west reserve, which includes the 
point on which Muka Head light is built, will, if properly protected, prove future 
sources of revenue. 
6. The present timber supply is principally derived from the Dindings and Na- 
tive States, and so long as it is maintained at its present point there is no necessity to 
draw on the small, and until recently over-worked, forest in Penang. 
7. Much additional information as to the composition of the Forest Flora has 
been collected, a great number of specimens added to the herbarium, and upwards 
of two thousand specimens distributed. Dr. King, in parts 1 and 2 of his “ Materials 
for a Malayan Flora,” has described several new trees from Penang. 
8. The small, herbarium of Penang plants, consisting of about three thousand 
sheets, on which practically nothing had hitherto been spent, has been mounted on 
white paper of the same size and quality as that used in Singapore and the whole 
systematically arranged in six cabinets at a total cost of $201. iu. 
9. A catalogue of these, with the addition of those mentioned in the Flora of 
British India as having been collected in Penang by former collectors, but which are 
