i8 
Annual Report on the Forests of Malacca, 
FOR THE YEAR 1888. 
i. The work of the early part of the year was carried out by Mr. FLANAGAN, 
but on my return from duty in Singapore, in the middle of April, Mr. FLANAGAN was 
transferred to the same Settlement. 
Forest Reserves. 
2. The work of the year has consisted chiefly of maintenance. In some districts, 
small nurseries are being established for raising seedlings of the best kinds of forest 
trees, for planting up waste lands within the reserves. 
3. Much difficulty has occurred in keeping the forest watchmen from frequently 
absenting themselves from their stations ; this is owing to their quarters not being 
large enough for them and their families. 
Quarters similar to the Police barracks are what are required. 
4. During the year, one Corporal of forest watchmen has died, and one has 
resigned. 
5. It is satisfactory to note that no fires have occurred within the reserves dur- 
ing the year. 
6. In Appendix A is a list of prosecutions for illicit wood-cutting detected by 
the forest watchmen. 
7. The following general notes are made with reference to the forest reserves. 
Bukit Bruang Reserve. 
8. Six miles from Malacca, situated between the districts of Batu Berendan .and 
Durian Tunggal, has eight and-a-half miles of boundaries, and an area of 1,734 acres. 
9. The hill-land rises to an elevation of 514 feet, and occupies a large area of the 
reserve ; it is well wooded with young timber, the most abundant and notable being 
Tampines ( Sloetia sideroxylon ) . 
10. Conservation appears to be all that is required in this district. 
Sungei Udang Reserve. 
11. Thirteen miles from Malacca, situated between the districts of Sungei Udang, 
Sungei Baru and Pangkdlan Balak, has fifteen miles of boundaries, and an area of 
4,800 acres. 
1 2. The reserve is well wooded, and includes a fair percentage of first class 
timber on certain areas. 
The most notable are : — 
Kayu Mrnyak (Dipterocarpus laevis) , 
Kempas ( Kumpassia malaccensis) } 
Seraya (Hoped cernua), 
Meranti (Hopea meranti) , ... 
Malaka (Phyllanthus emblica ) , 
Kelat (Eugenia zeylanica) , ... 
Kranji (Dialum indicum) , ... 
Arang (Diospyros sp.), 
abundant. 
do. 
do. 
do. 
do. 
do. 
fairly abundant, 
do. 
13. All the old Jakun clearings within the reserve are fast becoming re-wooded 
by natural reproduction. 
14. An abandoned estate ad mg the Pangkdlan Balak Road, and near the 
sea, requires to be assisted by sc planting, and this will form part of the opera- 
tions for 1889. 
15. Some young plants of Mahogany raised from seeds received from Kew and 
planted in this district during the year, have nearly all succumbed to the ravages 
of ants. 
