3 
Madagascar : — Brexia madagascaricnsis. 
South America : — Pitcaivnea andr cz an a. 
Solatium rubrum. 
Solatium Lobelii. 
Solatium texanum vav tricolor. 
Salvia hispanica . — (Cuba). 
Sagitiaria natans. 
Utricularia sp. 
D racontium poly phy Hum .- 
Garden origin: — Cviuutn hybrid. — (Todaro). 
Criniim Northianum — fruited for the first time, the fruit being hitherto 
unknown. 
The water lilies in the lake were propagated and made a fine show throughout 
the year, and a number of new kinds were introduced. There was a good exhibition of 
Gloxinias for most of the year, some very fine strains having been obtained. The 
Gramatophyllums in the Gardens did not flower at their usual time in August and 
September, but commenced flowering in December. 
New Plants Introduced. 
7. — Among the new plants of interest introduced were Palms, Cocos datil, Yatay , 
Calamus paspalanthus , Dcemonorops propin qua, Ganssia princeps, Coper nicia, 3 species, Areca 
flammula, Roscheria melano, Choetes. Among Ferns, Aspidium erythrosornm , A . descursivopinuatum 
and viridescens , Sophoroids, Gymnogramme lotta , and Lygodiim japonica from Japan. A collec- 
tion of succulents from Hamburg, and additional set of Nympheas and Cypems papyrus from 
Dreer of Philadelphia, and a collection of the Yautias (Keladi) of Cuba. 
Plants Received. 
8. — During the year 6,371 plants and 438 packets of seeds were received, beside the 
usual stock of flower seeds purchased. The donors were : — 
Messrs. Gibbs, Stephens, St. V. B. Down, Choa Iyim Keat, Micholitz, Hoe Eng 
Watt, Von Uslar, Loher, P. S. Falshaw, M. Laurent, Snow, Beauclerk, Col. Power, 
R. Little, Dr. Gimlette, Bidwill, J. C. Harvey, E. M. Holmes, Professor Sargent' 
Dr. Schlechter, Boehmer & Co., Sanders & Co., Herr & Co., Danman & Co., Dreer 
& Co., and the Botanic Gardens of Saigon, British Guiana, Baroda, Cuba, Rangoon, 
Berlin, Trinidad, Guiana, Madras, Washington, Sydney, Annum, Hamburg, Arnold 
Arboretum, Nogent sur Maine, Hanoi, and Philadelphia. 
Export. 
9— ‘ There were, excluding Para Rubber plants and seeds, 1,964 plants and 314 
lots of seeds exported. The recipients were Dr. Preuss, Chief Surgeon, Luang, Prabarm, 
Mr. J. Harvey, Mr. A. D. Machado, Mr. Woodford (Solomon Islands), Mr. Dreer’ 
Mr. Choa Kim Keat, Mr. Chatterjee, Messrs. Sanders & Co., Mr. Hoe Eng Watt’ 
Col. Power, Mr. Beauclerk, Mr. Hewitt, Mr. Taupin, Mr. Abrahams, Mr. Williams’ 
Mr. Down, Mr. Bird, Messrs. Danman & Co., Mr. J. D. Pereira, Mr. Rankin, Mr. Good- 
fellow, the Botanic establishments of Sydney, Jamaica, New Guinea, Penang, Teynampett, 
Christmas Island, Hamburg, Washington, Trinidad, Melbourne, British Guiana, Port 
Darwin, • Fiji, Kew, Cuba, Thaiping, Berlin, Hanoi, S. Nigeria, as well as the Royal 
Engineers Hospital, Blakan Mati, Pulau Pisang and Raffles Lighthouses, General Hospital, 
Government House, P.W.D. Grounds, Forest Department, F. M.S., Residency Malacca,’ 
Ordinance Office Pulau Brani, Kandang Kerbau Hospital, Colonial Secretary’s Bungalow, etc! 
Herbarium. 
10.— As it was impossible for the Director to make any expeditions this year, except 
one to Malacca and Province Wellesley, no great amount of collecting could be done. A 
large collection of herbarium was received from the Manila Botanic Gardens, and a lar^e 
number from the Buitenzorg Gardens. Indian and Philippine plants were received from 
the British Museum, and specimens were received from Kelantan from Dr. Gimlette, and 
from Selangor by Mr. A. M. Burn- Murdock, who also sent some wood specimens and two 
cases of plants collected by Mr. Fox and the Forest Officers in Lankawi and Penang. 
Specimens from Southern Siam were received from Mr. Down, and a number of interesting 
plants from Sarawak collected by Mr. Hewitt. 
