22. The principal trouble in connection with these plant sheds is the perishable 
nature of the material used, but with the amount granted for maintenance of this 
garden it is not possible to do more than has been done. Light T and angle iron 
structures, such as are used all over India, with the modifications rendered necessary 
by difference of climate, would, as I have pointed out in previous reports, be more 
ornamental, prevent the destruction of many valuable plants by the falling of rotten 
supports or’unavoidable accidents during repairs, and prove cheaper in the end. 
23. The demand for plants has been largely in excess of previous years, and 
although the prices charged are very moderate, $61 2.24 was received and paid into 
Revenue account, as against $312,91 in the previous year. 
24. The swimming bath has not been so well patronized as in 1891, the falling- 
off being principally in annual subscriptions. The total amount received is $1 17 - 95 * 
against $180.05 in 1891. 
25. A large number of plants and seeds have been exchanged, much to the 
advantage of the & Garden ; the additions to the orchid collection especially being of great 
value. A list of the principal donors and recipients is given in Appendix C annexed. 
Government Hill Gardens. 
26. Fruit trees in the Experimental Nursery were manured about the beginning 
of the rains, but no fruit of any importance has vet been produced. A small plantation 
of Liberian coffee and nutmegs was made in thi$ nursery in March, but the former 
were soon attacked with leaf disease. 
27. The routine work of maintaining the Garden and grounds in connection 
with Government bungalow has been carried on much as in previous years. A fair 
display of flowering plants in beds, and in pots for the decoration of the corridor, occ. 
has always been available, and occupants of the bungalow have been supplied daily 
with vegetables. 
Coco-nut Tree Preservation. 
28. The inspector with one climber and one notice server has been employed 
alternate months in Penang and Province Wellesley, and the work has been satis- 
factorily performed. 
Four hundred and sixty-nine (469) notices were served ordering the destruction 01 
5,815 dead trees, or portions of trees, and 60 heaps of refuse likely to prove breeding 
place for the beetles. 
29. In the majority of cases these notices were complied with, but in 88^ cases 
it was found necessary to enforce the law, and fines were inflicted amounting al- 
together to $198. 
General. 
30. Press of work in the Waterfall Garden, especially since the death of the late 
Overseer, prevented much time being devoted. to the collecting of plants. 
A hurried trip to Pulau Langkawi in the month of April yielded a good result 
a great many of the plants collected having been exchanged for South American and 
African orchids. 
31. Brief visits were also paid to the Dindings, Kedah, and Perak In connection 
with the work of the department, and a few plants obtained on each occasion. 
32. The Director of Gardens and Forests visited this Settlement in February, 
and afterwards proceeded to Perak; while he remained in that State his collections 
of living plants were forwarded to the Penang Gardens to be established, and sub- 
sequently a portion were sent on to Singapore. 
33. A good deal of work was got through at the Residency, principally by the 
aid of convict labour. This consisted in raising the ground on the Tramway side 
and of planting a screen of quick-growing trees to shut off the buildings belonging 
to this Company. Clumps of shrubs were planted on the land raised, and a num- 
ber of fruit trees planted in the background. 
34. As in former years, the supervision of planting shade trees, and Dato 
Kramat Garden has been undertaken for the Municipality. 1 he laying out of the 
new Cemetery has also been completed. 
35. The total expenditure of the department for the year amounts to $9,657.63, 
and the revenue received from sale of plants, &c., $753- 2 4- The total amount of fines 
in connection with the preservation of forest reserve and coco-nut trees amount to 
$512, as shown in Table A annexed. % 
C. CURTIS, ; % 
Assistant Superintendent of Gardens and Forests. 
Penang, 23rd January, 1893. 
