2 
5- .Among 1 the birds, a fine female of the Celebes cassowary was presented by 
Mr. Alfred Lea, of Mindanao ; a rare serpent eagle, presented by Miss Wood- 
worth ; a pelican ( Pelieanus p h il ip p in e ns is) , purchased; a Javanese wild cock 
( Gallus var i us) Another species obtained last year, which is still living, has been 
shewn by Lieut. KELSALL to be undescribed, and he proposes the name of Gallus 
atroviolaceus for it. It is supposed to have come from Borneo. 
6. Of reptiles, a large specimen of the monitor {Hydrosaurus salvator) was 
caught at Blakang Mati by Lieut. KELSALL, and presented to the Gardens, A python 
was also presented by Major Alexander. A fine example of the deadly Bungarus 
fascial us was captured by Mr. Hole, at Pekan, and safely brought to Singapore. 
Buildings . 
7. A new pjant-house, ioo feet long and 15 feet broad, was put up for the cul- 
ture of pot-ferns at a cost of $50. The middle house used for culture of Seedlings 
was entirely reconstructed at a cost of $75, and the potting and packing sheds rebuilt 
at a cost of $50. The coolie lines were repaired at a cost of $20, and new quarters 
for the Mandores were built at a cost of $198,83 in the Experimental Gardens. The 
large plant-house will evidently require a very large amount of repair, many of the 
beams being rotten, although they are of ballow wood. It would be much better, and 
really more economical, to replace these and the posts with light spiral iron columns, 
although the primary outlay would be larger than the Gardens vote could stand; 
8. The plants in this and in the orchid-house have done very well and looked 
bright all the year. The following are among the rare species seldom or never 
flowered in Singapore: — Protamomum ; a new genus of Sc it amine ce from Pahang; 
Cdttleya Trianae, C. intermedia and C. speciosissima ; Ly caste Deppei\ Lockhart ia 
elegans ; Catasetum trident atum\ Catasetum Bungerothii ; Mesospinidium vulcani- 
cum ; Aspasia ep ide n dr aides, from South America; Coelogyne fomentosa, Cumingi , 
macrohulbon and one or two new species ; Trichoglottis fasciata and a new specie’s 
from Kuala Lumpur; a fine new Phalcenopsts near Luddemanniana , from the Philip- 
pines ; Cypripedium insigne var. exul, a new plant from Bangkok,- — were, among the 
Eastern orchids, rarely or never in flower here before. 
Among other pot-plants of other orders of interest were : — Didymocarpus quinque- 
vulnerus , a very fine new plant from Pahang, and D. pyrolceflorus ( Mount Ophir); 
Trichopus zey l anicus ; Braganl ia tomentosa ; Pomazota sylvestris ; Justicia , new 
species from Pahang; Schizocapsa , from China; Car ex divaricata \ Chamaecladon 
Grijfthii var. argent ea, from Pah a n g ; Crjrp ta n th us Seuckeri and Anthurium 
Dechardi ; and Hipp^n&trum solandriflorum , from South America. Among foliage 
, plants, a very beai^tipl Strchilanthes , introduced by Mr. BOXALL from Burma, 
attracted generaj/attention. 
Fernery. 
9. This required reconstruction, as the roots of the shade trees had become too 
numerous, ^and usurped the soil intended fot. the ferns. It was, therefore, entirely 
re- made, a few trees cut out, and others jdiinned, and fresh ferns, with Cypripediums 
and other plants introduced, the result being that the rockery is much more pic- 
turesque and interesting. 
f , 
Lake. 
10. The island in the lake was thoroughly cleaned and replanted. The large fig 
tree in the centre was found to be quite dead, and its removal made so large a gap 
in the centre of the island that the whole of the plants on it were removed, and re- 
placed by palms and pandanus, which will, when grown, produce a fine effect 
Palmetum. 
11. A number of additional palms have been planted here, and there are now 
representatives of one hundred and sixty species, belonging to one hundred and two 
genera. 
Propagation. 
12. Another glass frame, larger than the previous one, has been built for striking 
cuttings and establishing newly imported plants. It has proved very successful, and 
seems especially suited to Cattleyas and other South American plants. 
The large plant-nursery by the* new lake has been enlarged, the soil here bein®- 
exceptionally suited for nursery plants. 
Flower Beds and Borders. 
13. These have been replanted and manured and kept in good order, as have 
been the lawns. A small mowing machine was obtained in the early part of the year, 
and has proved very useful. 
