i6 
54. In accordance with the decision arrived at in July, when the Director ot 
Gardens and Forests visited this Settlement, all pot plants have been removed from 
the Experimental Nursery to the Bungalow garden, which is 500 feet higher. 
55 * Vegetables, too, of which many kinds have been tested in this Nursery, 
will, in future, be grown on the land set aside for this purpose in connection with 
Government Bungalow, and the Nursery devoted principally to fruit trees and other 
economic plants. 
.A 
56. Enough has been done to prove that many kinds of European vegetables 
can be grown in Penang, but the cost of carrying manure' from the foot of the hill, 
without which nothing can be done, and the lack of a sufficient area of even moder- 
ately level land on which fodder could be grown so as to keep cattle, renders it 
improbable that the cultivation could be made to pay. 
57. Chinese market gardeners are the only persons that could possibly grow 
such things as Tomatoes, Carrots, Parsnips, Lettuce, Beet, Radish and Turnips, 
(which are the kinds most easily grown), so as to put them in the market at a 
reasonable price, and these sho^v no inclination to do so, even when supplied with 
seeds free of cost. 
58. Two new plant-sheds have been put up at the entrance to Convalescent 
Bungalow for the plants removed from the Nursery, and others received from 
correspondents or collected by myself in Perak at altitudes varying from 2,000 to 
6,000 feet. 
59. The planished on Gun Hill has been improved by the removal of the 
wooden stages, and fixing wire netting with a matting of lalang grass to a height of 
eighteen inches above the new beds to break the force of strong winds, which are 
trying in this exposed situation. 
60. Many interesting plants flowered in this shed during the year, and were 
in some cases sent to the Waterfall Garden while in bloom. Among these were 
Cattleya Mendelli, and two other unnamed species ; an Anguloa with six flowers, 
Rhododendron multicolor, R. Teysmanii, Vanda Amesiana, Cypripedium Lawren- 
cianum, C. bellatulum, and Calceolaria mexicana, from seeds collected by myself 
at Darjeeling. The latter re-sowed itself and flowered a second time. Many other 
plants that barely exist in the Waterfall Garden grow quite freely here. 
61. Seeds and bulbs of many kinds not previously tried in this Settlement 
were purchased from Messrs. Jas. Veitch & Sons at a cost of $50, but arrived too 
late in the year to admit of an opinion being yet formed of their relative merits. 
62. The Roses obtained from Calcutta in December, 1888, were planted in 
carefully prepared beds, and have done well. Alterations, consequent on the forma- 
tion of a tennis court in front of the new building necessitated the transplanting of 
a portion of these in October. This was carefully done under my personal super- 
vision and the plants are now (January, 1890) in bloom. 
63. More plants have been received during the year from Messrs. Chatterjee, 
in exchange for ferns, orchids, &c., collected locally, and those best suited to this 
climate are being propagated by means of budding on strong growing stocks. The 
best growers and freest flowering kinds are the Teas ; such as Marshall Neil, Celine 
Forestier, La Marque, Devoniensis, Perle de Lyon, Marie van Houtte, See. 
64. A few new beds have been formed, and the old ones manured, replanted, 
and kept in fair order, but building operations have necessarily prevented the grounds 
from being kept so neatly as could be wished. 
65. The levelling for new tennis court has been under the supervision of the 
Public Works Department, but the cost, to the extent of $268.75, h as been defrayed 
from the vote for Improvement of Grounds, Bel Retiro. 
66. A clump of Juniperus virginianus has been planted at the entrance to the 
Convalescent Bungalow, and promise to do well. 
67. Rifle Range Hill, which had become overgrown with low jungle, has been 
re-cleared, and a few trees planted on it. The range is now available for practice. 
68. Maintenance of roads and paths has, and always will, owing to the 
formation and heavy rainfall on the hill, absorbed a large proportion of the amount 
granted for up-keep of these gardens. 
