/ 
Annual Report on the Botanic Gardens, Singapore. 
Staff. 
i . There vvere-but few changes in the Staff during the year. The plant-collector 
Kasdani proved very indolent and was discharged, a former peon Idris being ta ~en on 
in his place. The Garden’s peon was discovered to be stealing and suppressing 
letters entrusted to him to post, and was arrested and charged at the Magistrate s 
Court and sentenced to nine months’ imprisonment. The coolies worked well, but 
the supply of good labour is very short, and the price of labour is very high now. 
The watchmen were a very poor lot and had to be constantly changed. In fact, the 
class of labour all round is very inferior to what it formerly was, and it is nearly 
double the price. 
Visitors. 
2 . The number of visitors was unusually large chiefly on account of the large 
number of persons passing through to China, and the Philippines. There were also 
an unusual number of Scientists who visited the Gardens. The Regimental Band 
played as usual on moonlight nights and was highly appreciated. Beyond the theft 
of four small palms and a few flowers there were no thefts and no prosecutions. 
Aviaries. 
No additions were made to the aviary buildings during the year, except a few 
small additional enclosures for special animals. The following animals and birds 
were added to the collection : — An Albino Porcupine with a normal young on C\Hystrix 
Ipncricauda) purchased. A Philippine Deer ( Cervus moluccanus ) presented by 
Madame HlNNEKINDT. One Bornean bear presented by Capt. CUMMING (died shortly 
after). One Kijang {Cervulus Muntjac) female, presented by Ahmat BIN Hadji 
Omar. One Mias {Simla Satyrus) presented by Mr. DiTTiyAR, One Slowloris and 
young {Nycticebus tardigradus ) presented by CuSTAWl. One Indian Mungoose 
male, presented by Yeo Cheow BOCK. One Cuscus {Phalangista sp.) purchased. 
Two hybrid Monkeys, one Kijang, and one common Deer were born. During the year 
two Rhinoceros {R. sumatrensis), were on deposit in the Gardens by Mr. PUSTAU. 
One died from injuries received in trapping, but one was thoroughly healthy and was 
eventually shipped to Vienna. These animals created a great deal of interest in the 
public who came in crowds to see them. Am-ong the birds a black Adjutant was 
presented by GARASAMY Pillai. One Cockateel presented by Mr. W. NANSON. Two 
Egrets from Sumatra presented by Ahmat. Three young Owls presented by Mr. 
Boden Klass. One^agle by Mr. T. Bin Ching. Six whistling Teals, by Mr. A. F. 
BlSCHOFF, Four Christmas Island Pigeons {Carpophaga Whartom) presented by Mr. 
Clayton. One Pergam Carpophaga senea presented by Mr. 1 homas. Four Casso- 
waries, purchased. A short-eared Owl Asio accipitrinus caught in Singapore, the first 
recorded for this region was purchased. 
Reptiles. 
One Python reticulatus presented by Hon. W. FGERTON. One large Python 
curtus captured at Bukit Timah. One large Tortoise ( Testudo emys) was obtained 
at Batu Pahat during an expedition there, and another fine specimen was presented 
by Yeoh Kok Chy, from Telok Anson. 
The mortality among the animals was no greater than in former years, and, as usual, 
chiefly occurred in newly imported animals, which often are sent in in a sick condition ; 
others died apparently from old age among which was a jungle pheasant which had 
been in the Gardens for over 18 years. 
Flower Show. 
An exhibition of flowers and flowering plants was held in the Town Hall on April 
ioth. The plants shown in most classes were not up to the average of past years, 
though some classes, such as ferns and begonias, were very fairly well shown. There 
was however a deficit on the working expenses. 
