i3 
13- Through the kindness of the Director of the Royal Gardens, Kew, andV 
Messrs. VE1TCH, SANDER, and LOW, I obtained and brought with me from England 
a large and valuable collection of plants which form a grand addition to those already 
in cultivation here. The whole amounted to over three hundred plants, and occupied 
fifteen cases, most’ of which were opened and watered at . intervals during the voyage. 
The losses were inconsiderable, and entirely the . result of a few cold nights before 
getting to the Straits of Gibraltar. In the appendix I have given a list ot the plants 
obtained, and it is understood that, as opportunities occur, Malayan plants will be sent 
to those contributors in exchange. 
Bungalow Garden and Experimental Nursery . 
14. The Tennis Court in front of the new wing to Government Bungalow laid out 
at the beginning of the year, was ready for use about the middle of May. 
15. Of annuals and other flowering plants, a fair display was maintained. 
Achimenes, Pansy and Larkspur did well in pots, and Dahlia, Coreopsis, Ageiatum 
and Cornflower in beds. 
16. Owing to the bungalow being more frequently occupied than formerly, a 
< larger stock of- pot plants is necessary for decorating the corridor and rooms, and the 
same holds good as regards roses and other flowers for cutting. 
17. During a stay of two months in Gwalior on my way to England, I obtained 
from the Superintendent of State Gardens a collection of acclimatised vegetable seeds, 
which were at once forwarded to Penang. The Overseer reports that some kinds, 
especially onions and cucumbers, gave better results than has been obtained from 
English or Continental saved seeds. A further trial will be made this year, and if the 
result is equally good, a supply will be obtained for distribution among Chinese market 
gardeners/ The English vegetables grown in Gwalior during the cold weather are 
equal in every respect to the best obtainable in England. 
18. The roads and paths were maintained in good order, side drains repaired, 
and other routine work attended to. 
• 19. The avocado or alligator pear, known also as vegetable marrow or midship- 
man's butter, fruited for the first time this season. The trees look well and promise 
to be as easy of cultivation as any of our native fruits. 
Preservation of Coco-nut Trees. 
21. The Inspector and two men were employed nine months in Penang and 
three months in Province Wellesley. 
22. One hundred and six notices were served on persons having on their pre- 
mises dead trees or rubbish likely to prove breeding places for beetles ; and as the 
result 2,073 dead trees and 109 heaps of rubbish were destroyed. 
In addition to the above, many trees were destroyed as soon as the owners atten- 
tion was called to the subject. 
23. Four prosecutions were instituted in Province Wellesley, and the offenders 
fined $5 each for neglecting to comply with the terms of the Ordinance. 
Six Summons served in Penang had not been decided at the end of the year. 
24. In connection with the work of the Department, the Acting Assistant 
Superintendent visited the •Dindings, Singapore, Kedah and Langkawi ; and also 
supervised the work of planting, &e. of Residency grounds, the laying out of new 
Cemetery, and planting of shade-trees within Municipal limits. 
General. 
25. The total expenditure of the Department amounted to $10,086.40, as shown 
in the Statement annexed, 
C. CURTIS, 
Assistant Superintendent of Forests . 
Penang , 18th January , 18 92. 
"h 
