2 
Imp at tens sp.- — A very pretty dark pink balsam (Sumatra). 
Scutellaria javanensis (Java). 
Statice sinensis. 
Lobelia nicotianeefolia . — (Ceylon). 
Palico u rea gar ■ eni o ides . 
Bryonopsis laciniosa. 
Randia sp . — Shrub with white flowers. (Madagascar). 
Begonia Kewensis. 
Clerodendron sp—{Cl. dispar if olium of Kew, but not the plant of the Malay 
Peninsula known by that name). 
Gomphia decora. 
Pass for a ambigua. 
Calyptrogyne sarapiguensis. — (S. America). 
Marcgraavia umbellata developed several bunches of buds, which however never 
opened. 
Dendrocalamus pendulus. — Both the big clumps of this splendid Bamboo began 
to flower and die at the end of the year. 
Cola acuminata. — Fruited heavily in the Economic Gardens for the first time, 
a'batch of seedlings was raised. 
Dichopsis oblongifolia. — Fruited heavily in the Economic Gardens and also in the 
Garden jungle. 
Camoensia maxima , produced fruit for the first time. A species of Canthium 
received some years ago from Uganda, under the name of M atagonda Edible fruit 
fruited this year. It is a shrub with small green flowers, and little round yellow fruit. 
It does not appear to be a very valuable addition to our stock of dessert fruit. 
Plants and Seeds Received. 
During the year there were 7 o 35 plants and 35 ^ packets of seeds received, the 
donors beino- Messrs. E. L. HbLMES, Professor SARGENT, Dr. SCHLECHTER, A. D. 
Machado, J. d'A. Pereira, L. Boehmer & Co., H. Dreer, F. Glazebrook, H. Eng 
Watt C Curtis, Carter & Co., Damman & Co., T. D. Taite, Hon’ble W. J. 
Napier, H. Cannell & Sons, C. B. Kloss, St. V. B. Down, J. C, Harvey, 
M. Herb, James Veitch & Sons, Mr. T. W. Brown, Mr. Valentine Knight, 
Mr. BeaUCLERK, Mr. Lyon, Mr. WeberbOUR, and the Botanic Gardens of Kew, 
Grenada, Taiping, Manila, Buitenzorg, Washington, Rangoon, Ceylon, Calcutta, 
Sydney, British 'Guiana, Trinidad, Seychelles, Honolulu, Berlin, Durban, Congo, 
Hongkong, Cairo, Nogent sur Marne and the Arnold Arboretum. 
Plants and Seeds sent out. 
Excluding Para Rubber seeds and plants, 2,491 plants and 236 packets of seeds 
(ornamental and foliage) were sent out. The recipients were Messrs. C. Curtis, 
H Eng Watt, St. V. B. Down, Dr. Seffer, Dr. Schlechter, H. Dreer, 
A D Machado, Miss Gage Brown, Mr. Mariner, Boehmer & Co., V. Knight, * 
S Bidi & Co., A. M. Burn-Murdoch, Mr. Beauclerk, M. Lyon and the Botanic 
Gardens of Rangoon, Buitenzorg, Penang, Lagos, Natal, Brisbane, Ceylon, Trinidad, 
Hongkong, Kew, Jamaica, Calcutta, Madras, Trivandrum, Queensland, Honolulu and 
Sydney Plants were also supplied to Government House Domain, General Hospital, 
Hospital Grounds at Labuan, Chief Police Officer's quarters, Municipal Roads and 
Reservoir and Military Gardens at Tanglin and Blakan Mati. This does not of course 
include the plants and seeds sold. 
Herbarium. 
Except a short trip during the Easter Holidays to Johore made by the Director, 
it was impossible to make any botanical expeditions. A collection of 234 specimens 
from Southern India was made by the Clerk Mr. J. S. ISAAC when on leave and 
presented to the Herbarium ; 100 specimens of Philippine plants were received from 
Mr. Copeland of Manila, 25 specimens from Bintang Island from Mr. C. B. KLOSS 
and 84 specimens from the Botanic Gardens of Buitenzorg. 
Three packets of specimens were sent to the British Museum, two to 
Dr BECCARl, three packets to Prince Roland BUONAPARTE and 93 fungi m alcohol, 
with drawings made by the Artist, to Kew. The account of these fungi, the first 
