23 
Fruit trees and other economic plants have also been largely propagated, but the 
failure of the fruit-crop prevented so large a stock being prepared as might have been 
desired. . 
A collection of ornamental and flowering shrubs has been maintained, to supply 
the needs of the town. ^ 
^ Works. 
95. The following works have been done in the Gardens. Ihe ground adjoining 
the lakes has been temporarily planted with Arnotto, Assam 1 ea and Patchouli ; tvvo- 
, thirds of an acre have been cleared, and holes dug for Liberian coffee, two hundred 
and three of which plant's have been planted, and a stock prepared for next rainy 
season ; and two acres have been cleared and holes dug for the reception of timber 
and other trees. The poorer soils of the Gardens will be planted up with timber- 
trees, nibong and bamboos. 
. Economic Plants. 
96. The common Mahogany, Swietenia mahogani , has proved here as elsewhere 
in the Straits a failure. The large-leaved species, Smacrophylla , apparently a more 
robust plant, is growing well here, seeds were obtained from Calcutta in March, and 
the plants are now two feet tall. 
Camphor { Cinnamomum camphora ) a small stock of plants has been raised from 
seeds received from Hongkong in February. 
Cloves are growing vigorously, most of the seedlings planted eighteen months ago 
are now five feet tall, and very healthy. Two trees which were in the Gardens when 
transferred are now' fruiting. It is evident that they might be profitably cultivated here. 
Maltese Lemons, are doing very well. Two trees have borne fruit of good size 
and quality. 
Castor Oil {Ricinus communis)-. — Seeds received from Calcutta have grown well 
and fruited freely, and a stock is now being raised for more extensive planting. 
Patchouli ( Pogostemon patchouli) is growing very well and fast, but the 
demand is limited. 
Kroma Susu {Euphorbia pilulifera). — Plants received from Singapore have 
grown well, and it has also been found wild near Bukit Bruang. There has not yet 
been received any report as to the value of the drug as grown here. 
Arnotto ( Bix orellana), Tapioca, six varieties from Singapore, Black Pepper, 
Assam Tea, Liberian Coffee and Nutmegs have all been doing well. 
Roads and Drives. 
. 97. The main drive through the Gardens has been maintained in good order, 
and the entrances from the Bukit Bruang and Batu Berendam Roads have been* 
much improved by the erection of pillars. When the dam across the lake has been 
erected, a drive round the whole extent of the Gardens can be made. 
A cutting of some feet in depth which would be necessary for this, is being made 
by the Public Works Department to supply material for roads in the neighbourhood. 
Lake. 
98. Nothing has been done to this during the year. It is hoped that a vote will 
be sanctioned for damming it and finishing it next year, as the want. of a proper water 
supply is being felt. 
Forest Reserves. 
99. The Forest watchmen have worked well, but much difficulty exists in pre- 
venting their absenting themselves from their station on account of their quarters 
not being large enough for their families, and two men were dismissed for this. 
The quarters at three stations will be enlarged during the ensuing year, and it will be 
necessary to enlarge the remainder in order to accommodate the men’s families at 
an early date. 
Prosecutions, &c. 
100. Two cases of timber cutting occurred during the year. In one case a fine of 
10 dollars was inflicted, the other was settled by the defendant paying 4 dollars, 
the value of the wood which had been taken by mistake. A fire broke out in the early 
part of the year on some waste land at Sungei Udang, but no harm was done. 
ft 
