l 9 
11. All the available land suitable for experimental cultivation has been culti- 
vated throughout the year. 
12. Egyptian cotton, annatto, tea, nutmeg, castor oil, Mauritius hemp, and cho- 
colate have been grown on the land adjoining the lake. 
13. Egyptian cotton (Gossypium arhoreum) made very little progress in its 
growth, the soil of the Settlement generally is not rich enough for its cultivation. 
14. Annatto (Bixa orellana) has grown well and could be cultivated readily ki 
almost every part of the Settlement, but there is little demand for it. 
1.5. Hybrid Assam tea (Thea chinensis , varj has grown well and is now 
in full bearings some of its seeds have been sown and germinated, the seedlings re- 
moved from the nursery bed and prepared for box planting. 
16. Nutmeg (Myristica fragrans ) grows satisfactorily on the hill sides, but it 
requires liberal manuring. 
17. Castor oil (Ricinus communis ) Calcutta variety grows well and fruits freely, 
but it was badly attacked by beetles lately and died. Its cultivation has now been 
discontinued. 
18. Mauritius hemp ( Furcrcea cubensis) grows with great vigour in the nur- 
series, and several hundred plants have-been planted near the lake. There are about 
8,000 plants in the nurseries which could be transplanted. 
19. Chocolate (Tkeobfoma cUcao ). — Chocolate plant has proved very capricious 
in Malacca, whole plantations going off without any apparent cause, except the attacks 
of leaf insects, while here and there a solitary plant will for many years survive its 
fellows and go oh bearing heavy crops of fruits. Therefore its cultivation has been 
discontinued in Malacca. 
20. Liberian coffee. — Coffee requires very liberal manuring. Coffee planted on 
the ordinary soil without manure has not proved a success. 
21. Cloves (Eugenia caryophyllataj . — Some of the plants in the Garden, planted 
by Mr. Derry, are now about 14 feet high, and in full blossom. The dry red soil of 
the Settlement suits cloves admirably. 
22. Maltese lemons, nut-megs, Indian mahogany, camphor, West India crab- 
wood, Mauritius hemp, Ceylon and Mauritius pine apples are growing well and made 
favourable progress during the year. 
23. A large supply of seeds of the common fruit trees such as durian, binjeh, 
pulasan, mangosteen, duku, langsat, rambutan, rambei, were sown in the. middle of 
die year, and a large number of seedlings transplanted and prepared for box planting. 
24. A portion of the shabby looking coolie line in the nursery near the lake 
collapsed a few months ago, and the remains of the building were removed and the spot 
cleared. A piece of jungle land about 2 acres in extent on the slope of the hill on 
the other side of the lake has been cleared, excavated and levelled, on which a new 
kapong-bark-wall coolie-line 60 x 25 feet with Mandor and Printer's Quarters has 
been built. The main posts are of eight-sided Tras Balau, Penagah Lilin, Tampinis 
and Sapan of 14 inches in diameter, and the other materials of hardwood scantlings 
3 to 7 inches in diameter and the roof of double rumbia attaps. Three kitchens have 
also been erected. 
25. Want of space in which to grow the increasing collection of plants neces- 
sitated the erection of an additional plant-house in the nursery for the cultivation of 
ferns, palms, and a great variety of other plants. This is a ventilated roofed house 
40 x 18 feet, the materials being hardwood scantlings 7 inches in diameter, and the 
, roof of double nipah attaps. 
26. A new cart road 600 yards in length from the Assistant Superintendent’s 
Quarters to the new coolie-line running parellel with the lake has been made at the 
close of the year. 
