D 
Euterpe stenophylla. — South America. 
Cuphea petiolata . 
Amorphophallus titanum received from Padang flowered and the great flower 
spike and enormous leaf which followed it were very attractive to visitors A Salvia 
received under the name of Zurich proved very successful as a bedding plant and a 
useful addition to the beds. There was a good show of Antirrhinums, a plant not 
very well suited to our climate, Musssenda erythrophylla of the Congo was remarkably 
beautiful and plants sent to Kevv attracted the notice of visitors there, causing a 
demand in Europe for the plant which had long been lost out of cultivation in Europe. 
Plant Houses. 
All the plants in these houses were repotted and renewed, many old plants taken 
out and replanted in the Gardens, and replaced by younger plants. The flower house 
was with some difficulty kept bright with flowers throughout the year. The herbace- 
ous plants last so short a time in full flower in this climate, that to keep a house of this 
size well stocked requires a very large amount of stock plants to be kept growing. 
The houses were highly appreciated by the visitors, the fine exhibition of Adiantums , 
the big Amorphophallus titanum and Platyceriums and Thamnopteris especially 
attracting remark. 
Beds and Borders. 
Several of the ornamental borders were replanted and heavily manured and the 
one by the Garden Office continued for a length of 75 feet. The other parallel to 
Garden Road was entirely taken up, trenched and manured and replanted. The Canna 
beds were trenched to a depth of two-and-a-half feet and heavily manured and replanted 
the result being a superb show of Cannas of great size and brilliancy. Several others of 
the smaller beds were redug, manured and replanted and in many cases new soil was 
brought and the worn-out soil changed. Several new beds were built. By the lake, 
vistas were cut through the Wormia bushes and ornamental beds of purple grass and 
other bright plants were made on the further side New Victoria regias and other 
water lilies were planted and all well manured. No less than 500 loads of manure 
were used in this part of the Garden this year. 
Expeditions. 
The Director made several short expeditions during the year to various places in 
search of plants. In the early part of the year a few days were spent at Cucob in 
Jolvore, where a number of rare and new plants were obtained including one new 
genus of Scitamineee, later a visit was made to Tebrau, and by the assistance of 
Mr. Bryce who resided there a day was spent at Sednak along the railway. Many plants 
were obtained here. The Agricultural Exhibition was held at Kuala Lumpur this year 
and during the week of the show the plant collector who accompanied the Director 
made useful collections in the neighbourhood. After the show was over visits were 
made to the Batu Caves and Klang Gates, a remarkable mass of sandstone with a very 
distinct xerophytic flora. A number of new plants were obtained here, though the 
season had. been so dry that many plants were out of flower. In November, an 
expedition was made to the main chain of the Peninsula at Telom by the Director, 
Mr. H. C. Robinson, and Mr. C. B. Kloss. The Director went to Tapah first to await 
the arrival of the other members of the party, and as there was some delay, spent the 
time in collecting in the neighbourhood of Tapah, where a number of interesting plants 
including some new ones were found, the most noticeable being a fine new Phrynium 
with highly ornamental foliage, of which on the return living plants were brought to the 
Gardens. On the arrival of the party a start was made from Telom through the Batang 
Padang valley. It was reached in three days and during the stay of nearly three weeks, 
the Director and plant collector made extensive collections. A very large number of 
novelties were obtained, the most interesting being a new genus of Liliacese allied to 
Tupistra and a number of plants of the Himalayo-Javanese flora previously unknown 
in the Peninsula including Sanicula, Sarcopyramis and Disporum. An account of 
this flora is being prepared for publication. 
In all these expeditions living plants of interest and beauty were brought 
successfully to the Botanic Gardens. 
Herbarium. 
Besides the large series of plants obtained by the Director on his expeditions there 
were received the following additions to the Herbarium ; — 
Borneo plants— a large series from Sarawak containing many novelties from. 
Mr. J. Hewitt, Mr. C. J. Brookes, and Mr, Lewis. 
