Bedok. — Is nearly all lalang, -with a patch of swamp in which is growing a good 
deal of sago. This* will be a good spot for cultivating sago to supply ihe waste swamp 
lands of Malacca. 
Tuas. — About a quarter is good forestland, and the rest is lalang, secondary forest 
and mangrove. The timber here is small and chiefly of a size fit for fishing stakes, 
rollers and such work. 
Murei. — Is composed of mangrove, swampy jungle, lalang and brushwood. 
Bukit Panjang . — About three-quarters is lalang, the rest secondary and a little 
old jungle, in which are Meranti and Bintangor Bungah trees. 
Military Reserve. — Has been thickly planted with most kinds of good timber 
trees, and last year about 555 young Jambu Ayer Laut were planted, and many young 
Tembusu trees are coming up among the lalang and fern. 
Upper Tanglin. — A small hill-side patch of jungle containing a little Tampines, 
Brangan, and other trees. 
Buildings , < 5 rc. 
22. A new forest station has been built at Kranji, at a cost of $50, the old one 
on the sea beach being unfit to live in. A station has also been built at Tuas, where 
there had not previously been one, at a cost of $20. The station at Bukit Timah 
was removed, on accbunt of the prevalence of fever there, to a more healthy situation. 
The house in the Botanic Gardens, which was tenanted by the Forest Overseer, was 
condemned as being unhealthy and not worth repairing, so a new house was built in 
the Military Forest^Reserve, and the old one broken up. Three boats were purchased 
during the year for the reserves at Seletar, Kranji and Tuas. 
Forest XVatchirMi . 
2^. The total number of men employed in the reserves was eighteen men, four 
Lance-Corporals and one Corporal. All worked well, with the exception of one Lan ce- 
Corporal and two watchmen in charge of Changi Reserve, who were dismissed for 
taking bribes from a Chinaman. 
Fires. 
24. Seven fires occurred during the year, three of which were among lalang 
and brushwood, and four among secondary jungle, of which about 16 acres were 
destroyed. Three fires took place at Changi, in February, April and August, res- 
pectively, one at Pandan, one at Bukit Panjang, one at Ang Mo Kio, one at Sungei 
Buluh, and one at Jurong. In every case the fire has started from lalang in the day 
time, most of them from the road side, or on paths. All efforts to capture the 
persons who have ignited the grass failed, but there is reason to believe that the 
fire is usually raised by some passer-by throwing a light into the lalang. 
Prosecutions. 
25. Eighteen cases of prosecution were instituted during the year, fourteen of 
which were for timber cutting arfd the rest for encroachments. One case was with- 
drawn, and seventeen convicted ; the fines inflicted amounted to two hundred and 
sixty-five dollars, of which fifty-five dollars were paid. 
Experimental Garden. 
26. I reoret that this has had to suffer a good deal from want of funds, a man- 
dore and six coolies being all that it was possible to afford out of the Forest vote, 
from -which the garden is still paid. This is really inadequate to keep the garden 
up to its proper level, still less to put under cultivation the large tract of land still 
waste. As the garden no longer really bears any definite relation to the Forest 
Department, it seems advisable to put it under the Gardens vote. Of course, this 
would add to the expenses of the Gardens as they now stand, but I believe that a 
further development of this experimental and economic department is very much to 
be desired. 
Among other things urgently required, are the fencing in of the whole of this 
garden and the military forest reserve, at least where it abuts on private property 
or public roads. An attempt to mark the boundaries by a fence by which, at least, 
trespassers and cattle can be kept out, will be made this year. To put the waste 
land included in it under cultivation is another point. Some of the soil is decidedly 
good, and certain trees grow very well in it, I hope to increase the area under 
cultivation this year, and, wherever I can, to make the whole an Economic Garden 
worthy of the Colony. 
