6 
« 
Florida Despatch and Chemist and Druggist for the year 1888, were presented 
by their respective Editors. 
Herbarium. 
25. The Herbarium has been partially arranged, but the absence of any Curator 
during the greater portion of the year prevented much being done. 
A fine series of Cupuliferse , Euphorbiaceae and Ficus from the Peninsula was pre- 
sented by Dr. King of Calcutta, and these have been incorporated with the Herbari- 
um, and specimens have been also received from Mr. Curtis of Penang. 
Ex-Establishment. 
Government House Domain. 
26. Under His Excellency’s personal direction, the department has effected a great 
improvement at the entrance to Government House Grounds, by the removal of a 
number of unsightly and worn out fruit trees, and the substitution of clumps of palms 
in their stead. Other trees in the grounds have been pruned and manured where 
necessary. 
People’ s Park. 
27. This Recreation and Pleasure Ground, which has just been handed over by the 
Government to the Municipality, was designed, and planted entirely by the depart- 
ment. Some thousands of trees and shrubs were used for this purpose. The plants 
have grown and look well, and the Park has already become an ornament to the town 
and a favourite resort for the Chinese, w r ho principally form the residents of the 
locality. 
28. The usual exchanges in plants and seeds took place during the year. The 
number of plants received from abroad w^as 690, and 206 parcels of seeds. The num- 
ber of plants sent abroad was 1,278, and 40 parcels of seeds. 
The following have been the chief contributors 
Royal Gardens, Kew, 
Botanic Gardens, Hongkong, 
„ „ Bangalore, 
„ ,, Trinidad, 
,, „ Saharunpur, 
„ ,, British Guiana, 
„ ,, Adelaide, 
„ „ Ceylon, 
„ „ Jamaica, 
„ ,, Buitenzorg, ... 
„ „ Melbourne, ... 
The following were purchased : — 
Messrs. John Laing & Co,,.. 
„ Cannell & Son, .. 
,, Carter & Co., 
„ Sutton & Co., 
„ Paul & Son, 
Plants. Packets of Seeds. 
19 
6 
59 
6 
27 
70 
29 „ 
5° 2 sacks. 
2 
1 
21 
12 
37 
36 
76 
16 
The following are the chief contributors wdthin the Settlements: 
H. E. Governor Sir Cecil C. Smith, k.c.M.g., seeds of Bauhinia bidens. 
W. BOXALL, Esq., Cypripedium claptonense , Vanda Parishii. 
W. Valentine, Esq., Cypripedium Godefroyae. 
J. C. RavenswAY, Esq., Saccolabium Blumei, Vanda tricolor , Begonia sp. 
W. Nanson, Esq., Cypripedium Lawrencianum, Dendrobium formosum 
D. album, Calanthe vestita, VErides crispum var. Warneri and Vanda Rox- 
burghii. % 
C. Curtis, Esq., Penang, Cypripedium niveum, C. barbatum, Bonapartea 
juncea, Pteris sp., Didymocarpus sp., Calanthe cecilioe, C. curculigoides. 
H. C. Johnston, Esq Phalcenopsis violacea, Phal. grand ifior a, Cypripe- 
dium niveum, and Saccolabium H endersonianum. 
A. Gentle, Esq., Tacsonia sp., and Ipomea bona-nox. 
