8 
Dr. HAVILAND presented the herbarium also with a collection of 200 plants from 
Borneo; Mr. Hervey some from Perak; and Mr. DuRNFORD from Kwantan ; and the 
British Museum sent 150 specimens collected by CUMING in Malacca and the Philip- 
pines, by Lobb in India and Malacca, and by HorSFIELD in Java, in exchange for a 
similar number of plants from Singapore. A small number of plants have also been 
sent to Dr. King, to Professor Engler, in exchange for his collection of Araceae, and 
to Kew. Professor Hackel of St. Polten ,has kindly named specimens of grasses, 
and Mr. C. B. Clarke and Sir Joseph Hooker have also identified Cyperaceae 
and orchids. 
Taking the herbarium as a whole, the following States are well represented: — Sin- 
gapore, Penang, Malacca. From Selangor and Sungei Ujong and Perak, we have a 
comparatively small number. Johor, Kedah, Pahang, Kelantan and Tringganu are 
almost blanks. From Sumatra, we have no specimens at all, and from Borneo but 
few. It is hoped that, with the opening up of the peninsula, specimens may be sent 
even from the interior. 
A few specimens of timbers, fruits, &c.-have been collected, but at present there 
is no place even to prepare specimens of the economic products of the peninsula, 
which would not only be interesting, but of great importance in a country so rich in 
vegetable products. It is highly important that a collection of timber, rattans, gut- 
tas and dammars, should be formed, in order to investigate their properties and values. 
The herbarium room contains but little more than the cabinets and a place for the 
Curator to work. A larger building for other economic, products is much required. 
Library. 
17, The following books have been. added to the Library during the last year : — - 
PlERRE.— (( Flore Forestiere de Cochin Chine,” presented by the French Govern- 
ment. 
Browne, F. R. — “Forest Flora of Australia,” Parts 1-3, presented by the Govern- 
ment of Melbourne. 
Mueller, F. R. — “Systematic Census of Australian Plants,” Part 1 and 1st, 2nd 
and 3rd Annual Supplements presented by the Melbourne Government. 
“Iconography of Australian Species of Acacias,” Decades 1-13. 
“ Eucalyptographia,” Decades 1-10. 
“Index Perfectus ad Caroli Linnoei Species Plantarum.” 
WALLICH. — “ Plantae Asiaticae Rariores,” purchased. 
’ Rumph. — “ Herbarium Amboinense,” purchased. 
Beddome. — Ferns of Southern India ” and Supplement, purchased. 
Dr. King. — “ The Genus Ficus,” purchased. 
Veitch. — “ Manual of Orchids” Vol. IV, “ Cypripedium,” purchased. 
Hackel. — “ Monograph of Andropogoneae,” purchased. 
Kurz, S.— “ Forest Flora of British Burmah,” purchased. 
Kurz, S. — “ Korte Schets van het Eiland Banka,” purchased. 
Kurz, S. — “ Vegetation of Andaman Isles,” presented by Dr. King. 
Hooker. — “ Species Filicum,” 5 vols., purchased. 
Hooker. — “ Illustrations of Floras of Malaya and Africa,” purchased. 
“On Nepenthes” purchased. 
Hooker. — “ leones Plantarum,” for 1889, presented by Benthan Trustees. 
BeCCARI.-— “ Malesia,” vols. 1-3, purchased and “ Nuove Specie di Palme Alia 
New Guinea,” presented by the Author. 
Preston, G.— “ Working of Fibre Industry in Yucatan,” presented by the Author. 
SCHLICH, W.— “ Manual of Forestry,” presented by the Indian Government. 
FAWCETT, W. — “Species of Balanophora and Thonningia,” presented by the 
Author. 
Hasskarl. — “ Plantae Javanicae Rariores,” purchased. 
HASSKARL. — “ Observationes Botanicae,” purchased. 
Hasskarl. — “Catalogus Plantarum in Hort Bogor,” purchased. 
Treub, Dr. — “ Annales Botanical Gardens, Buitenzorg,” presented by Dr. Treub.. 
Oliver. — “ Three New Genera of Malayan Plants,” purchased. 
JUNGHUHN. — “ Plantae Junghuhnianae,” purchased. 
Veth. — “ Midden Sumatra,” purchased. 
JACK, W. — “ Account of Lansium domesticum,” purchased. 
Jack, W. — “ Malayan Species of Melastoma,” purchased. 
Blume. — “ Enumeratio Plantarum Javae,” purchased. 
Blume. — “ Overeenige Oost Indische Houtsoorten,” purchased. 
Blume. — “ Oost Indische Melastomaceae,” purchased. 
v 
