0 
M usee du Congo, Madagascar Bulletin, The Shamba (Zanzibar), Agri-Horticultual 
Society, Madras, and the annual reports of the Gardens of Natal, Ceylon, Trinidad, 
Hongkong, British Honduras, Zanzibar, Zurich, Calcutta, Buitenzorg, New South 
Wales, Travancore, Barbados, Antigua, Mysore, British Guiana, Gold Coast. Forest, 
Department, Madras, Uganda, Queensland Acclimatization Society, Smithsonian 
Institute, Washington. 
The Flora. 
During my stay in England, 1 examined and compared the Aroids, and^ Cala- 
meae of the Singapore Herbarium with those of Kew Gardens and published an ac- 
count of new species of Aroids from the Peninsula in the Journal of Botany. The 
volume of the Flora including the Monocotyledons having been entrusted to me, I 
have finished the Hydro charideoe and Orchidece and the manuscript has been type- 
written, the remainder of the orders with the exception of the Glumales have been 
written out and are nearly ready for the typewriter. 1 hope to finish the work in a 
few months. I have also undertaken to do the order Gesneraceoe. 
The Artist has continued to make drawings of the more interesting plants. 
Bulletin. 
The Bulletin was published 'regularly each month, and to judge by the demand 
for it mav be considered very successful. The first volume of the new series was 
-completed at the end of the year. It included 6l6 pages of letter press and 8 Plates. 
Three hundred and thirty copies were distributed to various establishments and 
private persons each month, beside separately purchased copies. It was not expect- 
ed at first that there would be so great a demand for it, so that of some numbers no 
copies remain in stock. 
Herbarium. 
* 
Comparatively few specimens were added to the herbarium this year, as owing 
to stress of work it was not possible to visit the forests. I went to Penang however 
in December, and got three days' collecting in the Perak Hills; though the time was 
short I obtained several new and little known plants including three Pandani, several 
Rattans in flower, and a remarkable Balanophoraceous plant, probably generically 
new, and such rare and little known plants as Chrysoglossum villosum, and Zingiber 
Kingii. 
Herbarium specimens were also received during the year from Mr. Curtis (Pe- 
nang and Malacca), Mr. R. Shelford (Sarawak), Dr. Prain, specimens from Scortechini 
and Ku nstler's collections, together with some copies of drawings of rare species. 
Mr. E. Merrill (plants of Labuan), Mr. Penny, specimens of wood, leaves and fruit of 
the catinga from Pahang. Mr. Craddock, Pahang plants, Mr. Micholitz, Balanophora 
n.sp. Tenimber islands, and specimens of rare plants were sent by Messrs. Derry, 
Arden, Burn-Murdoch and Machado. 
Duplicate specimens from the Herbarium were sent to Kew (146), Sydney Botanic 
Gardens (479), Calcutta (212), British Museum (120) and some palm and pandanus 
specimens to l)r. Beccari. A collection of specimens of Economic plants was prepared 
.for Prince Roland Buonaparte. t 
Economic Gardens. 
In this part of the Garden, a large piece of ground, lying between the new road 
.and the Arboretum on the east side, was cleared, stumped and partly turfed. This 
much improves the appearance of this portion of the Garden. The boundary on this 
side was also cleared, and a hedge planted. A number of new nursery beds were 
formed, and the stock of Economic plants for distribution having got very low was 
renewed as much as possible, but owing to the drought and change of mandors, it 
was difficult to get a large enough supply for the demands. 
Para rubber . — The demand for seeds and plants of this fell off materially as 
many of the trees planted in the Native States and Malacca are fruiting now, and 
the planters are now supplying themselves. The number of seeds sold or otherwise 
distributed was 126,210, young plants 
Owing to the drought the crop was very late and smaller than usual ; experiments 
were made in tapping but were not completed as owing to the drought, the latex 
escaped very slowly and in small quantities. 
Experiments were made in manuring young plants in pots, with various kinds of 
manures, including lime, cowdung, burnt earth, poudrette etc. The evidence, was in 
