IO 
trees. Altogether an area of About Go acres was opened up and planted and 15 acres 
planted on the previous year were cleared and the trees weeded. The chief tree?' 
planted were Mahogany (large-leaved) 17,600; Merbau 6,8oo ; Eugenias and various 
plants 98 2; Rengas, ( Melannorhea) 300, all raised from seed, and 1,380 Ralam re- 
moved from the Botanic (jrardens were also planted. 1 he Mahogany and Merbau 
made very satisfactory growth and there were but few failures. The Merbau seed 
was found to do very well, planted at stake, without the necessity ot raising in 
nursery beds and transferring later to the wood. A large quantity of seed of the small- 
leaved Mahogany was sent from Calcutta, but failed to germinate. The large-leaved 
kind is however in every way more suitable for cultivation, being more rapid in growth 
and altogether a stronger tree. A number of seeds of a Shorea found in fruit in the 
jungle were planted, "but made very slow growth, and are not yet ready for trans- 
planting, a few seeds of Xylin dolahriformis the Pynkado and seeds of 
Pterocnrpus macrocarpus the Padouk were sent from Calcutta and were 
planted and germinated well. Some thousands of seed of Kranji ( Dialium ) were 
purchased in the market where the fruit is sold for eating and germinated freely. 
This very valuable timber is of slow growth at first but increases more rapidly after 
a few years. The Merbau trees at Bukit Mandai and at the old plantation by the 
Bukit Timah Forest Station, were opened up, the scrub and other trees growing 
round them and interfering with their growth were removed, and the few billion trees 
on Bukit Timah which have survived the encroachment of fern and scrub were also 
cleared round, and have already shewn signs of increased growth, unfortunately the 
greater number planted in 1S84, succumbed to want of clearing in the follovving years. 
Mr. Hill during his visit to Singapore inspected the planting on Bukit I imah, 
and made many valuable suggestions which are being carried out as far as possible. 
Vote 
Expenditure : — 
Salary of 3 coolies 
Transport 
Cart hire 
Rent and ‘ rikisha hire 
Balance 
$ 3 °° 
252.14 
9-39 
7 - 5 ° 
21.00 
9-97 
$300.00 
Government House and. Domain. 
The Mandore, ROGERS died in May and as there was some difficulty in getting a 
suitable man to replace him, the Mandore Aniff was transferred till a man had been 
trained for the work, and remained there till the end of the year. The coolies worked 
satisfactorily and the gardens and park looked we\\. 
Vote... ... $2,360.00 
Expenditure _ 
Salaries of Mandore and Coolies. $1,974.89 
Tools and Stores ... 231.48 
HandCart... .. 29.00 
Lawn Mow r er ... ... 27.00 
Pots and Tubs . .. ... _ 87.00 
Manure ... ... ■ 7 * 6 ° 
Balance ... 3-°3 
$2,360.00 
Botanic Gardens, Penang. 
Waterfall Gardens. 
" For several years there has been no change in the staff of this Garden. MahOMAD 
H aniff, Overseer, and MAHOMAD Hussain, Propagator ; the two men on whom the 
working of this Garden devolves during my absence on other duties both served three 
