3 
in spite of the labour difficulties and scanty funds, the Gardens were kept in a 
fairly good and bright condition and were highly admired by many visitors who ex- 
pressed themselves as quite unprepared for such picturesque gardens. 
Plants in Flower. 
A mono- the more interesting plants which flowered in the Botanic Gardens for the 
first time wer y.— Acanthus Mont anus , Ocimum viride , the Mosquito plant, Dracaena 
phrynioides and the Uganda Coreopsis from Africa. Diospyros argentea \ Calamus 
scipionum , the Malacca cane, Parabaea capitata , Den drocolla , two new species collected 
by Mr. Machado. Coscinum fene stratum, Raphidophora Korthalsi , Mapania triquetra 
n.sp. from the Malay Peninsula. 
Schismaio glottis multiflora, n.sp. Curculigo racemosa , n.sp. Homalomena fasciata 
n.sp. Haplochorema uniflorum and Dracaena au cuboefolia n.sp. from Borneo. ^ Alpima 
^calaarata, Ceylon, Dendrohium taurinum var Album, New Guinea. A new Strobilau- 
t%es from India, presented by Mr. Micholitz. The Wistaria pea, Dolichos sp. from 
Zephyr anthes citrina, Chamcedorea Marticma , Astrocarynm tecumoides , Hibiscus 
lunar iifolius, Calliandra Ca racasana, Aphelandra puimla , D ich o yi sand v*a thyrsijfora , 
from South America. A hybrid Crinum from Italy also flowered, and Eugenia 
hraziliensis , fruited for the first time. This latter is an excellent little sweet black fruit, 
well worth cultivation. 
Plants and seeds received. 
The number of plants received during the year by presentation or in exchange was 
510 together with 442 packets of seeds. 
The donors were Mr. J. C. Harvey (Mexico), Dr. Bus se (German hast Africa), 
Mr. Erichsen (Sweden), J. Waterstradt (Borneo), Mr. Micholitz (Burmah and Malay 
Islands), Bishop Hose (Borneo), Mr. Von Uslar (Borneo Orchids), Mr. St. V. B. 
Down (Southern Siam plants), Mr. Dupont (seeds of Lodoicea seychellarum), Mr. 
Lyons (Manila), Dr. Abbott (Sumatra), Mr. G. L. Lucas (Jamaica pineapples), Mr. 
Pritchard (Cotton seed), Messrs. Choa Kim Keat, Chatterjee, Dunman, Wulle 
Sutton, Harmsen and Boehmer (various ornamental plants), Mr. Machado (Perak 
plants)' and the Conservator' of Forests, Darjiling, Southern Californian acclimatization 
Society, the Botanic Gardens of Kew, Gold Coast, Lagos, Uganda, Barbados, Mysore, 
Madagascar, Lagos, Calcutta, Sierra Leone, Selangor, British Guiana, Mauritius, 
Baroda, Sydney, and Dehra Dun. 
During a short excursion on leave to Sarawak, I obtained a number of new and 
interesting Borneo plants. 
Flants and seeds sent out. 
During the year, exclusive of plants sold, there were sent out 233 plants and 234 
packets of seeds. . _ . , T 
AmotF the recipients were, Mr. Choa Ixim Keat, Mi. I ereira, Mr. Harvey, 
Messrs. Dunman, Dr. Busse, Mr. Frizell, Mr. Meissner, Mr. Craddock, Mr. Down, 
Mr. Bland, M. Boehmer. and Bishop Hose. 
The District Officers of Tampin, Kuantan, Kuala Kubu, Temerloh, Kuala Lipis, 
Raub, District Surgeons of Pekan, Kwala Lipis, Malacca, Province Wellesley, Negri 
Sembilan, Kwala Lumpur, Tcluk Anson, Parit Buniar, Batu Gajah, Taiping, and 
Conservator of Forests. 
The Botanic Gardens of Kew, Uganda, Seychelles, Gold Coast, Madagastai, 
Zanzibar, British Central Africa, British Guiana, British Honduras. Jamaica, Mauri- 
tius, Sierra Leone, Old Calabar, Southern Nigeria, Trinidad, Baroda, P.mang, Selangor, 
Southern Californ'a, Acclimatization Society. 
The Flora. 
'fhe portion of the Flora dealing with the Monocotyledons was finished and the 
o-reater part is type written and ready for publication. The Gesneraceoe were also 
finished during the year. The collection of Utricularias was loaned to Dr. PRAIN at 
Calcutta who is undertaking the Leutibulariece for the flora, and he on his part sent 
the collection of Gesneraceoe of the Calcutta herbarium to be studied for the Flora. 
The herbarium specimens of I mpatiens were sent on loan to Sir JOSEPH Hooker at 
Kew who is writing an account of those of the Indo-Malayan region. 
The Artist continued to make drawings of plants for the flora and to finish the 
unfinished drawings. He however is resigning his post in January. The loss of his 
services is regrettable in the cause of botanical science, as these drawings are of the 
M 
