5 
\ 
The Collection of Piperaceoe was sent to M. C. De Candolle, to be examined 
for the working out of the order for the Flora of the Peninsula which he has under- 
taken. 
Publications. 
The Monograph of the Malay Peninsula Gesneracefe, was published in the Jour- 
nal of the Straits Branch of the Asiatic Society , and also a paper on the Aroids of 
Borneo. 
The Agricultural Bulletin was published as regularly as could be done, and was in 
as much demand as ever. A list of the Aroids cultivated in the Gardens was published 
and copies distributed to Gardens and other Institutions for exchange purposes. 
The Artist continued making drawings of rare and interesting plants, and also 
made a number of diagrams for the Botanical Lectures at the Medical School. A course 
of these lectures was given by the Director to the students lasting for about 3 months, 
two lectures a week being given. This being the first course delivered and there being 
no diagrams, specimens, books, etc., in readiness when the school commenced work, 
occupied a very large proportion of the Director’s time during the session.. 
Library. 
The following books and papers were added to the Library during the year 
Presented. 
Van Hall, C. J. J. — Inspectie Van den Landbouw in West Indie. 
Edwards, H. T. — ■Abaca. 
Barraclough, Th. — Ramie, Rhea and China grass. 
Woodrow, G. M. — The Mango. 
Wildeman, E. de — Notices sur les plantes utiles et interessantes de la Flore du 
Congo, (continuation). 
Raciborski, Dr. M. — Parasitische Algen und Pilze Java’s. 
Watts, Fr. — Manurial experiments with Sugarcane in the Leeward Islands. 
Vines, S. — Proteases of Plants. 
Beccari, O. — Palme nuove papuane. 
Beccari, O. — Li Pal mi del genere Trachycarpus. 
Busse, W. Uber.— Heil und Nutzpflanzen Deutsches Ost Africa. 
Busse, — Uber das auftreten epiphijfischer kryptogamen von Kamerun. 
Busse, — Weitere Beitrage zur gattung Strychnos. 
Eckart, C. F. — Field experiments with Sugar Cane, Honolulu. 
Eckart, C F. — Comparative analyses of varieties of Cane. 
Eckart C. F. — Irrigation Experiments. 
Pit. — Eenige Proeven met Phosphor zuur Bemestung. 
Kramers, J, G. — Andere Mededeelingen over Koffie. 
Hissink, D. J. — Een studie over Deli-Tabak. 
De Candolle, A. — Tiliacese et sterculiacece novoe. 
Lundia Damazei. 
Observations Heratologiques. 
Tromp de Haas, W. — Uit .Komrnsten van de in 1904 verrichte aflappings proeve 
van Hevea Braziliensis. 
Bottomley, John — Cotton growing in the Northern Territory, S. Australia. 
Wellborn, W. C. — Soil fertility of the Philippines. 
Barber, A. — Haustoria of sandal foots. 
Barber, A. — Report on the work of Samalkot Experimental Sugar farm. 
Freer, P. E. and Polk, M. — Description of the new buildings and Catalogue of 
Library of Government Laboratories, Manila. 
Duthie, J. F.— Flora of Upper Gangetic Plain. 
Duthie, J. F.— Cultivation of oranges in Dominica. 
Martel! i, U.— Webbia. 
Herzog, M. — The Plague. 
