i5 
4- On the 1 8th, worked up the left bank of the Batang Padang River, and col- 
lected a number of ferns, orchids, &c. Many well known' plants of interest were 
observed, one of the most noticeable being a gigantic specimen of a large fern Angi- 
opteris evecta. Rain came on about noon, and nothing more could be done until 5 P.M., 
when it cleared up, and I managed to collect several specimens of a fine orchid — Ceelo- 
gyne pandurata. 
5. On the morning of the^th, left Tapah for Kuala Dipang, distant about 18 
miles. This is a limestone region of which I had heard much, and was the object 
I had in view on leaving Penang. I did not proceed direct, but stopped first at about 
ii miles from Tapah to see a Liberian Coffee Estate of which about 100 acres has 
been planted. The two-year old coffee is very fine and promises to be a good invest- 
ment. At six miles from Tapah I halted again to examine fhe trees that had been 
felled for a new road. Here I collected some fine specimens of Coelogyne Loivii , a plant 
named after the late Resident of Perak, and originally collected by him in Borneo. 
About noon, I reached Kampar, a large mining village containing -probably 10,000 
Chinese. Remained here until 2 P.M., and then went on to Kuala Dipang in pouring 
rain. The distance from Tapah to Kuala Dipang is about 18 miles. 
6. October 20th . — The village of Kuala Dipang is at the foot of Gunong Bu- 
jang Malaka, and near the junction of the Kampar and Dipang streams. One side 
of the valley is limestone, and the ^opposite granite. The flora of the limestone, to 
which I mainly confined my attention during the limited time at my'disposal, is, as I ex- 
pected to find, quite different to anything I had previously seen in Perak. The gene- 
ral features' is much nearer that of the Langkawi Islands and Panga on the mainland, 
but the same families and genera are here represented by different species. Begonias, 
balsams, alocacias and gesneriaceae are numerous in individuals, but not one species,’ 
so far as I saw, is identical with those found in Langkawi and Panga. Here at the 
foot of the hills are patches of deep. rich reddish soil, not of sufficient area for a large 
estate, but excellent for small cultivators requiring say 40 or 50 acres in a patch. 
In places there occurs in considerable numbers a species of Laportea which the Ma- 
lays call “ jelatang Gajah.” I was warned to avoid thiivplant, and for some time did so, 
but in a moment of forgetfulness I brushed one lightly with the back of my hand. 
The stinging sensation is exceedingly painful and continued in my case for hbout 
thirty-six hours. Cold water appears to increase the pain. Natives say that if any 
considerable portion of the body comes in contact with this plant, diarrhoea and vomit- 
ing is caused, and the pain continues four or five days. 
7. On the 2 1st, I again worked the limestone range, beginning at a place call- 
ed Sungei Siput, about 2 miles from the Rest House. Mining operations are going on 
here at about 500 feet up the face of the cliff, and the material is sent down on rotan 
slides stretched from the working out into the valley, their total length being about 
700 feet. In the hope of finding new plants, I was induced to go up the ladder to this 
working, but I must say, I was by no means comfortable until. I found myself safely 
down again. Several interesting plants were collected in the neighbourhood of these 
mines. - 
8. On the 22nd, time being limited, I hired a gharry and drove to the foot of Gu- 
nong Mesa, ‘distant from Kuala Dipang Rest House abo.ut 5 miles. This is an isolated 
limestone hill, on the top of which there is a trigonometrical station. From this point 
there is a very fine view of the surrounding country, but the flora is poor compared to 
the hills I had been on the two previous days. On another little isolated hill 1 collect- 
ed a new begonia and a balsam. On my return to the Rest House at noon, I met an 
Englishman who has a mine on Bujong Malaka at 3,000 feet elevation. He invited 
me to accompany him there, which l should gladly have done had time permitted. 
Having packed up the plants collected, I commenced the return journey at 4 F.M., and 
slept in the Rest House at Kampar. 
9. October 23rd-. — Raining heavily all night, and no sign of clearing at day- 
break. Waded about for an hour in a swamp to collect plants of Vanda Hookerii. 
At 10.30 left for Tapah, but stopped half-way and struck into the jungle for three 
hours to hunt up a plant I once received from this locality, but did not find many. 
10. October 24th. — Packed up plants collected at Tapah before leaving, and 
those that had been collected by a gentleman, who rendered me great assistance, during 
my absence. Dispatched these in a bullock-cart toTapa Road Station, and followed in 
a gharry at 9.30. Train left at 11 A.M., and reached Telok Anson at noon. Went 
straight on board the s.s. Flying Dragon , and arrived in Penang -at 6 A.M. on the 
25th. 
