7 
72. In spite of this difficulty, the general up-keep has been fairly maintained, anp 
the voung stock made satisfactory progress. 
77 *” The tree tomatoes continue to bear, and one of the apple trees from 
Australia produced eight fruits of large size and fair flavour. The oranges and 
citrons should commence bearing next year. . , 
7±. The olives continue to make progress, one tree having attained a height of . 
twelve feet, with a circumference of six inches at the base, but there is no sign of its 
producing fruit. 
IV . — Waterfall Garden. 
,, The result of the labour and thought expended in the formation of this 
parden'is only now Beginning to be realised, and I have no hesitation in saying that 
the community, both European and Native, appreciate the change that has been 
wrought in four years. , , 
^6. In addition to the benefit of a public garden to the community, the clearing 
of the Waterfall Valley has, I think, had a beneficial effect on the climate of the 
neighbourhood. The late Mr. HOGAN, who at one time owned this property, and 
attempted to grow nutmegs and cloves on a portion of it, informed me that he could 
get no one to remain on the spot on account of the fever. 
77. Owing to the poor gravelly nature of the soil, the expense of preparing holes 
for specimen trees, &c. is greater than in most other places, but the natural advan- 
tages of the surroundings, from a landscape gardening point of view, m a great 
measure compensate for this defect. . 
^8. The works of extension and improvement have been steadily pursued during 
the year, as means and circumstances permitted, but the greater portion of the money 
available for these purposes has been absorbed in the construction of a substantial 
bridge, forty-eight feet long, at the top of the grounds. This work was kindly under- 
taken by the Public Works Department, and cost $2,336.80. 
39. One area of land has been cleared and added to the garden on the east side 
of the stream, near the entrance, and a site for a band-stand provided by cutting 
down and terracing a natural mound on this land. . 
40. The area laid out at the end of the year is thirty-five acres ; out of a total of 
seventy-five acres acquired from the Municipal Commissioners. 
41. The narrow strip of land between the band-stand and stream has been 
acquired by purchase, and will admit of a great improvement being made in 1889. 
42. An unsightly swamp above the Office has been converted into an irregular- 
shaped pond, one hundred and twenty feet long by twenty to forty feet broad, and 
planted with the Victoria regia and other lilies. The only difficulty in connection 
with this is the large quantity of sand brought down by the rains from the hill road, 
and I see no way of preventing this. 
43. A bridge, 25 feet long, on the contour road, which was put up temporarily 
in 1885 with materials obtainable on the spot, has been replaced by substantial beams 
and planks that will last for many years. The material cost $100.07, and the work, as 
in all other cases with the exception of the large bridge mentioned in para. 37, was 
executed by the garden coolies. 
44. An extra shed for the cultivation of ferns, has been erected in the nurse- 
ry, close to the stream, and answers its purpose well. The plants have improved 
greatly since being removed to this site. » 
45. As many of the plants and trees as circumstances would admit, have been 
labelled with strong Chengal labels, but this can only be attended to at odd times, as 
other and more pressing work is generally on hand. 
46. The grounds of the Assistant Superintendent’s quarters, overlooking the 
garden, have been laid out and planted, and with the building form a prominent fea- 
ture in the landscape. The house has been occupied since the 1st February. 
47. Thinning put the jungle in the ravine above the upper plant shed was com- 
menced in November, in order that the formation of a natural rockery might be com- 
menced early in 1889. , , , 
48. The usual routine works of mowing, sweeping and attending to roads and 
paths, have been carried out at a considerable expenditure in labour, especially dur- 
ing the months of September and October, when the heavy rains did some damage 
to the roads. 
