5 
Professor Vaughan Stevens brought down to Singapore a number of plants 
used by the wild tribes in Kemaman for preparing the arrow poison — Ipoh. Some of 
these have been identified. They include two species of Strychnos (S.tieute) and 
another species, Gadong (Dioscorea dcemonum), Laportea crenulata (the fire-nettle), 
Cnesmone javanica, and two species of rattans. The different tribes use, some one, 
some others, of these plants in the preparation of the Ipoh, and some use no plants at 
all but certain portions of some of the poisonous fishes, but all use the juice of 
Antiaris toxicaria, yet it appears from samples of the juice of this plant sent to 
Kew that there is no poison at all in it: whether the samples forwarded to Kew de- 
teriorated on the way or whether the plant is only poisonous in combination with 
certain other substances remains to be seen. 
^ Vegetables. 
One hundred and thirty-nine (139) packets of vegetable seeds were received from 
the firm of Damann of Naples. They included different forms of most of the ordinary 
vegetables. The lettuces and radishes grew fairly well and were superior in flavour 
to the ordinary Chines^ kinds, but the latter were rather tough and hot. The dan- 
delion throve very well and makes 3 good salad plant besides being medicinal. The 
chicory has also grown very well and strong, and though very bitter would make a 
good addition to a salad. There is here always the difficulty of making these vegeta- 
bles set seed, and so continue their propagation. Without which even if they can be 
layered or reproduced by cutting, they sooner or later deteriorate. The pumpkins 
grew to large size, but it was found impossible to get them completely ripe, as they 
fell off just before ripening or, if supported, ceased to ripen and showed signs of decay. 
They were, however, very good but did not cook quite soft enough. The melons 
germinated well but the young plants were eaten down to the ground by crickets 
during the night. The ordinary vegetables so often tried here before were no better 
than in previous year. The tomatoes failed to fruit and the carrots, except the short- 
horn variety, were poor and stringy. 
Herbarium . 
A very large number of plants were added to the herbarium this year and the her- 
barium keeper was constantly employed in mounting them and they were arranged in 
the cabinets when done. In order to facilitate the drying of the specimens, a small and 
simply constructed drying-room was built on the outside of the office, which proved of 
the greatest success. It is heated when required by chatties full of charcoal placed on 
the ground, above them is a platforrfl of corrugated iron on which the specimens are 
laid to dry, the whole is enclosed with brick walls and roofed with wood, above which 
is a higher roof of tiles continuous with that of the office. Its use has saved a great deal 
of time, as the plants and other specimens dry much more rapidly than they otherwise 
would, and look better when done. Of herbarium specimens, an extensive series has 
been collected in Singapore by myself and by the Forest Overseer and watchmen, and 
collections have also been made in Johor, Pulau Tekong and Pulau Ubin. From 
Malacca, Mr. Derry sent in 290 specimens, and the Hon’ble D. F. A. Hervey 
presented about 100. During a fortnight’s expedition to Pahang, I obtained about 
600 plants from the district round Pekan, and Kwala. Pahang, among which were several 
new and rare species of interest. Dr. Haviland also sent some from the same 
region. In April and May a collector was employed in obtaining specimens in 
Selangor, along the new line from Kwala Lumpur. Mr. CURTIS went up first to ex- 
amine the place and start the collector and obtained a large number of plants, but the 
collector when left to himself was not very satisfactory. It seems to be very difficult 
to get a native collector who will work without European supervision. 
From Perak and India, Dr. King sent 584 named and mounted plants, chiefly from 
the- collection of Wray and ’SCORTECHINI, and Mr. Wray himself presented 7 speci- 
mens. 
From Kedah, Langkawi Islands, Perak and Penang, Mr. Curtis sent a large 
collection containing very many of interest. 
Dr. Keith presented 6 1 1 specimens from Siam. 
Mr. Gustave Mann sent a valuable collection of named ferns from Assam, in ex- 
change for a number of Straits ferns. 
Professor Vaughan Stevens sent a small number of specimens ’of the plants 
used in the manufacture of Ipoh arrow poison, by the Sakeis of Kemaman. 
From Borneo, Dr. Haviland sent 157 plants, and Mr. HULLETT 1 to. 
Through the kindness of Dr. BURCK of Buitenzorg Gardens, I obtained a good 
series (108) of specimens of the Dipterocarpea? and Sapotaceae of the Malay Archipe- 
lago, and three specimens of orchids pf interest. 
