Annual Report on the Botanic Gardens, Singapore, 
for the Year 1907. 
Staff. 
The Director went on nine months' leave from April 22nd, and Mr, Fox came 
from Penang to act in his absence on April 26th, Mr. R. DeRRY replacing him in 
Penang, Mr. C. B. KLOSS, who was temporarily acting during the absence of the 
Assistant Superintendent in 1903, acted in a similar capacity from August to November 
30th. The Artist Mr, C. DE Alwis ceased work at the end of the year. There was 
a good deal of sickness among the coolies during the year, Diarrhoea, Fever and 
Beri-beri. 
Visitors. 
There was the usual number of ordinary visitors to the Gardens during the year, 
and among others, Sir Nathaniel Nathan, Dr. Treub (Buitenzorg), Mr. Kelway 
Bamber (Ceylon), Mr. T. S. Burroughes, the Hon’ble Staniforth Smith, Director 
of Agriculture for Papua, Messrs. A. Brizon and DUCHEMIN from Saigon, Dr. H. 
BRENIER (Sous-directeur de I'agriculture), Hanoi, and Professojr J. PONCHAT, 
(Professeur d’agriculture and M. Thibaudeau), Administrateur de Hanoi, Tonkin, and 
many planters and others interested in agriculture. * 
Roads and Drives. 
An extra vote of one thousand dollars allowed of a good deal of repairs and 
re-making of roads and drains. The long road from the main entrance to the Band- 
stand was re-metalled. The road from Office entrance to the Band-stand re-metalled. 
The roads on both sides of the Office and from the old aviary to the main road were 
re-metalled. The road behind the Band-stand leading to the Potting-shed was patched 
and repaired. 
A new drain was built on four sides of the Garden Office leading to a tank for 
storage of water, and another on both sides of the road below the Band-stand leading 
to the plant houses was made. Guttering was supplied to the Garden Office. 
Buildings. 
The quarters of the Clerk and Foremen-Gardeners, and those of the Watchmen were 
re-attaped, A new store was built in the Economic Gardens, and new quarters for 
the Carpenters were built near the Godown. Two new latrines were built in the Cooly 
Lines. Old wooden stages for Orchids were replaced by bricks. The remainder of the 
old aviary buildings was cleared away, the ground dug and planted up and the old 
monkey cage repaired, painted and converted into a shelter. Repairs were also made 
to the ventilators of the Herbarium building. 
The long proposed scheme for supplying water from the well and lake to various 
parts of the Garden was definitely commenced. A two horse-power oil engine was 
erected and a tank for the water was put up in the Garden jungle. The work was not 
finished by the end of the year. This will be an immense improvement to the Garden. 
The cost was paid from the money obtained- by the sale of rubber made during the 
experiments. 
New and Noteworthy Plants. 
The following were among the most interesting plants which flowered or fruited 
for the first time in the Gardens : — 
Heptapleurum tomentosnm. — (Selangor). 
Dendrocolla pardalis. — (Sarawak). 
Schismatoglottis nervosus. — (Sarawak). 
Curculigo racemosa. — (Sarawak). 
