6 
Economic Gardens. 
15. A large block of land some acres in extent on the East side of the gardens, 
and running to the boundary stream was opened up, cleared of fern and bushes, and 
planted up with Ramie for which there was a large demand, Citronella, Lemon grass, 
and Cuscus, Earthnuts, Bananas and other plants! Para-rubber trees were planted in 
a row on each side, and plants of Balata gum. Mimusops globosa } Kickxia africana 
and Castilloa elastica were planted in various spots. The soil at this spot is very 
good and though the ground is very wet, water being met with at a depth of from a 
foot to two feet, it seems to suit certain plants very well. 
Another patch of ground above the Dalvey Road entrance by the order Urticaceae 
was cleared of weeds and useless trees dug and levelled. There are a number of 
Para-rubber trees at this point. A good number of additions were made to the 
Arboretum. 
Para-rubber is still in great demand, and fortunately this year’s crop of seed was 
a very fair one as compared with that of the previous year, 98,650 seeds being 00- 
tained as against 83,000 in 1897. 
These seeds w r ere distributed to planters and to Government plantations, together 
with 10,650 plants, in the following proportions : — 
Selangor 76,700 plants and seeds. Johore 21,300,# Borneo 5,500, Pahang 3,550, 
Penang 1,400, Bindings 400, Negri Sembilan 600, Madras 500. 
Still this by no means covers the demand for this plant, which is enormous. The 
greater number as will be seen are required for Selangor where the plant appears to 
thrive remarkably well. Complaints have however been received thence as to destruc- 
tion of seedlings by rats, which bite the tops off, as well as by mouse deer, and other 
animals. At the suggestion of Mr. Bailey the dried bark and leaves of a small tree 
were* sent to England for Analysis to see if much rubber was lost in drying ; no report 
of the results has yet been received. Samples ofjbark and soil from the ground on 
which the plants are cultivated were also sent to Mr. PARKIN, at present investiga- 
ting the physiology of the Para-rubber tree in Ceylon, and some experiments and 
calculations were made for him. 
Measurements of average and large trees growing in the gardens were made. Of 
the oldest trees planted in 1884, the girth at 5 feet from the ground was 4 foot 2 
inches in the smallest and 6 feet in the largest. Of the trees planted in 1888 a number 
were measured and gave an average of 4 foot 3 inches, the biggest being 5 feet the 
smallest3 foot 8 inches. Mr# WICKHAM, a gentleman, who has spent many years in the 
Amazonas district and was the first to introduce the plant to the East, visited the 
gardens, and explained an improved form of tapping the tree by punctures, obviating 
the necessity of making the usual V shaped incisions. The advan ge of this is 
that the bark is less injured and heals sooner and remains smooth instead of becom- 
ing rough as it does under the grooving system. 
Of Ramie. 
16. Fifty-one thousand (51,000) cuttings and four boxes of seed were sent to 
planters. Chiefly in Muar, Sumatra and Borneo. It is found very easy to raise this 
plant from seed, and in \yet weather the seeds often germinate on the plant. Of the 
different strains grown in the gardens, one is very superior in its tall growth before 
flowering, this is being more extensively propagated than the other varieties. 
Coca seed, ( Erythroxylon Coca) was also in some demand, and 12,000 seeds 
and some plants w r ere supplied to the Native States. The recent rise in the price 
of the drug has called planters attention to it. 
Other plants in request w 7 ere Vanilla (700 plants), Patchouli ( 550 ), fruit trees 
(550), Coffea stenophylla, Willughbeia firrna, Chocolate, Rattans, Cola, and Citronella 
grass. 
Plant Diseases. 
17. A number of insect and fungus pests were reported from various plantations 
in the Native States and specimens sent for identification. Among these were sam- 
ples of destruction of coffee, fruit-trees, ferns and other plants by the coffee locust, 
specimens of which sent to the Natural History Museum, in London, were identified 
as Cyrtacanthacris nigrovaria walk ; curiously a very rare-insect in Entomological 
collections in Europe. It lays its eggs in slits in the bark of the trees causing the 
death of the branches. Destruction of the adult by children with sticks and clearing 
the adjacent land of grass w-as recommended. Towards the end of the year great 
damage was reported in the coffee by the Beehawk moth ( Cephonodes Hylas) the 
