3 
14. Some new round and crescent beds were made on the old herbaceous 
ground, and planted with shrubs illustrating the order Rubiaceas {Ixoras, Gardenias, 
Mussamdas, etc.), and a little circular bed was made near the scitamineous border to 
* contain the few plants of the order Iridese, which thrive here. 
Experimental Garden . 
15. This garden has hitherto been under the Forest Department, and has suf- 
fered much from want of funds to develop it properly. It has now received a grant 
of $1,000 for its maintenance, and consequently it is possible to develop it 
steadily and much progress has been already made in it. Samples of all the economic 
plants have been arranged in beds parallel to the main walk, and properly labelled. 
They are classified according to use. The first group consists of beverage plants 
Teas— Chinese, Assam and Paraguay, coffees, chocolate. Then follow groups of 
spices, gums, resins, guttas, dye plants, fibre plants, etc. 
16. Above this the hill, formerly covered with grass and brushwood, has been 
cleared for a considerable space, and paths suited for riding or walking have been 
made. This hill, it is proposed to convert into an arboretum, containing examples' 
of all kinds of trees arranged in natural orders, in the same manner as the arboratum 
of the Gardens at Buitenzorg. Already the early orders of the Poly pet alee are thus 
planted, spaces being left for additional trees, and the work will be continued as • 
rapidly as possible. 
17. During the year, many economic plants were sent out to various private 
persons and Botanic, and other Gardens, besides a considerable number of seedlings 
of various plants raised for planting in the Singapore forests. 
18. Among the more interesting introductions this year were the Bilian 
{Eusideroxylon Schwageri ), of which a number of seeds were raised; Kapayang 
(. Pangium edule ), the true Sarsaparilla '[Smilax sarsaparilla ), and the English black- 
berry (Rubus fruticosus), which is doing very well, but has not shewn signs of 
flowers yet. 
The Avocado pear fruited this year, but the fruits were poor in flavour. 
'V'; jtg\ . . 
19. As much . interesVis being taken in gam hi r just now, I made visits to 
Various Chinese and Malay factories and plantations in Singapore and Malacca, and, 
with the aid of Dr. BOTT, Government Analyst, made experiments in preparation of 
the product, an account of which has been published in the Bulletin of Agriculture 
of the Straits Settlements. Experiments were also made in extsacting the essential 
oil of the Sumbong plant (. Blumea balsamifera ) by distillation. A green cam- 
phoraceous oil was extracted, which may have a commercial value. 
Reclaiming Waste Land , 
20. In previous reports, I urged the reclamation of the waste swampy ground 
lying close to the Tyersall Road, and the Government granted $1,000 to be 
expended in reclaiming and utilising this. The ground being low-lying and wet, a 
lake has been excavated to a depth of three or four feet, the excavated material . 
having been, used in the formation of the banks and a drive across the narrow 
portion of it. A brick overflow drain covered with slabs was made at a cost of $50. 
There is also a walk round the lake shaded by a collection of bamboos^ of dif- 
ferent kinds. Abridge will have to be made in the drive across to permit of the 
connection of the. two parts of the lake, and the materials for this have been pro- 
vided. A further grant was asked for the ensuing year in order to complete the work, 
but was refused. It will, however, in any case be necessary to finish the work, up to 
a certain point at least, and the funds f6r this must come out of the annual grant, 
which indeed can hardly afford it. 
Flower Show. 
21. A flower show was held in June last in the large plant-house as usual, but 
it was by no means as successful as in previous years, for not only were the exhibits 
poor both in quantity and quality, but the attendance, owing to repeated and pro- 
longed deluges of rain, was very small. The result being a deficit of ^429,15, which 
had" to* be defrayed out of the Gardens vote. . 
22. It is obvious that, unless more interest is taken in horticulture by the resi- 
dents in Singapore than at present, the show as an annual institution will have to 
cease. The Government would be hardly justified in spending s6 much money o*’ 
an exhibition attended with so little beneficial result. 
