27- Some planting has also been done near the Sago ground (point A plan A) 
and the following trees planted : — 
Hevea braziliensis, .... ... Para rubber, 397 
Afzelia palembanica, . ... .. MereJ>au, ... .. .1,170 
. Pterocarpus indicus, ... ... Sena, ... ... 718 
Calophyllum sp., Mentangor bunga, ... 104 
Calophyllum sp., Mentangor bunut, 51 
At the Sago ground. 
Sagus Isevis, Rumbia sagu, ...1,600 
At Bukit Bruang. 
Calamus sp., Rotan manau, ... 200 
Total, 4,240 
28. Root cuttings of. sago plants were purchased in the Settlement, but planting 
cuttings is expensive. At the end of the year, I was able to purchase seedling plants 
from boatmen trading with Siak, and I would recommend planting seedling plants as 
being cheaper and more successful. 
29. About 1,000 forest trees were planted near sago ground at the close of the 
preceding year and all have grown well. 
30. It has been found that the boundary of the reserve passed through some 
private rights near to the Trigonometrical Station, and the face of the hill (Bukit 
Bruang) is now excluded from the reserve. 
31. For practical preservation it would be well if the whole of the hill land was 
included in the reserve, and I would suggest that sufficient land be purchased to take 
in the hill land. 
32. It has been proposed to take in the Bukit Kuau and Bukit Katil hill chain 
(plan A) into the reserve. Bukit Kuau is fairly well wooded. The total extension 
would be about 500 acres. 
33. Sungei Ledang Reserve. — Marking the central compartment into sections by 
inspection-paths has been completed during the year. 
34. The boundaries which extend 15 miles as well as inspection-paths were in 
excellent order at the close of the year. 
35. Merlemau Reserve. — The forest watchmen have been assisted by a band of 
coolies in filling and laying timber so as to make the swampy boundaries passable. 
Six miles has been made passable and about 2 miles remains to complete the work. 
The work of maintenance at this reserve is exceptionally heavy. 
36. Inspection-paths have been commenced on the dry land in the upper com- 
partment of the reserve. 
37. Ayer Panas Reserve. — Inspection-paths, extending 6 miles., have been opened 
in the new reserve during the year and the boundaries maintained in good order. 
38. Bukit Panchor Reserve. — The watchmen have been employed exclusively 
on maintenance and preservation. The boundaries extend eleven miles. 
39. Brisu Reserve.— Some private rights still remain to be excluded from the 
reserve, and it is contemplated to extend the reserve in the direction of Sungei Bharu, 
but owing to more pressing duties this work has had to stand over. 
40. Bukit Sadanan Reserve. — The boundaries have been kept in good order and 
an inspection-path, extending about 3 miles from* the Selandar Road, over the hill, to 
the Tebung Road, opened. 
41. Bukit Batu Tiga Reserve. — This reserve has been demarcated during the 
year and boundaries, extending 14 miles, have been opened. The reserve is situated 
between the districts of Bukit Senggeh, Gapis, Nyalas, Chabau and Jasin, and com- 
prises about 8,000 acres. 
42. The reserve includes the hills, Bukit Kemendor, Bukit Batu Tiga (1,500 ft.) 
Bukit Hulu Rejang, Bukit Hulu Chembong and Bukit Hulu Blankong (800 ft.). All 
the hills are very steep, chiefly granite, and covered with large boulders. Several 
springs and streams have their sources in these hills. 
43. The low land is well wooded. The most abundant timbers are Kayu M inyak, 
Gambang, and Minyak Kuing, but here, as elsewhere, much of the valuable timber, such 
as Merebau and Kranji has been worked out. 
44 Batang Malaka Reserve. — Towards the close of the year this reserve was 
commenced and a boundary extending 3! miles opened. The reserve will extend 
from the frontier to Jus, taking in Bukit Punggor, Bukit Batang Malaka, Bukit Bern- 
ban (1,600 ft.) Bukit Nyalas and Bukit Gapis. 
