3 
Roads and Walks . 
m ■ ' * 4 
9. These have occupied considerable time and attention throughout the year, 
no less than five hundred cubic yards of road metal having been used: The follow- 
ing roads have been thoroughly re-formed : — The carriage drive leading from the front 
entrance to the band-stand ; the drive leading from the office entrance to the band- 
stand, and from thence to its junction with Garden Road. A special band of twelve 
Klings was employed on this work, and the result is very satisfactory. 
Plant House. 
10. This has continued to look bright with Crotons, Calatheas, and other foliage 
plants, as well as many orchids. Of these, there is now a fairly good collection of the 
Eastern kinds, thanks in great measure to many kind donors. The group has 
received, and is still receiving, much attention from amateurs here, and has taken the 
place of Crotons in popularity. Many of the smaller species, rarely seen in cultiva- 
tion, such as Erias , Cirrhopetala, Bulbophylla, Thelasis, are represented, as well as 
the more showy Dendrobia, Coelogyn.es, Phaloenopsis and Cypripedia ; great improve- 
ments have been effected in their cultivation by the use of a species of moss ( Leuco - 
bryum) which is eminently suited for basket cultivation, but is unfortunately rather 
scarce in the island, and difficult to procure. Many of the orchids, too, have been 
re-potted, or transferred to baskets or blocks of wood where it seemed that this style 
of culture would improve them. The species which thrive best here are naturally 
those which are commonly grown in the East India House, while those of the 
cooler houses are more shy of flowering here, on account of excess of heat and moisture. 
Their chief enemies are one or two species of beetles, snails, white ants, and a small 
species of wood-louse which nibblesfthe roots. 
Buildings. 
11. Little has been done beyond repairs where necessary,, such as re-roofing the 
cooly lines, the Police watchmen’s quarters, etc. A tool store and carpenter’s shop is 
now a pressing desideratum, as the building at present used is in a most dilapidated 
and rotten condition. The Committee have, however, approved of a new building 
being erected chargeable to this year’s vote. A small building will also be erected this 
year on the north side of the plant-house for the accommodation of the rapidly in- 
creasing collection of orchids, the present orchid nursery being unsuitable for them. 
Aviary . 
i-2. During the year, the Aviary has been put in thorough repair and re-painted 
at the cost of $150. Mr. Davison, the Curator of the Raffles Museum, has been 
good enough to name the animals and birds. A number of specimens have been 
added, both by purchase and donation, among the most interesting of which are the 
rare Horsfield Hawk-eagle ( Limnetis Horsfieldii) and the lesser Malayan Hornbill, 
Experimental Garden Vegetables. 
13. The exhaustive experiments in the cultivation of European vegetables, 
which was initiated and partly carried out by the late Superintendent, ceased in the 
early part of the year. It appears that, although success attended the trial of some 
varieties, speaking generally, the result must be considered a failure. Great difficulty 
seems to be experienced in getting the Chinese market gardeners to take up the cul- 
tivation of European vegetables, or indeed of any newly introduced plants, despite 
the fact that the European population would readily purchase them. 
The following list, taken from Office records, comprises those vegetables worth 
cultivation : — 
Tomatos, .. . Very good especially the Cherry Tomato. The 
larger kinds are best grown in tubs. 
Jerusalem Artichokes, .. Very good. 
Turnips, . Fair. 
Onions, ... Fair. 
Carrots, . . Early Short-horn fair, but flavour inferior. 
Of tropical vegetables, the Cho-cho ( Sechium edule), though growing readily, 
has as yet fruited but scantily. 
Fruits. 
M* In the Kew Bulletin for October, 1888, a short account is published of the 
