I 
I 2 
12. three old bridges have been reconstructed in stone and iron which is a 
permanent improvement and completes the bridging of the one and-a-half mile of 
carriage road within the Garden. There are now three bridges of stone andiron 
spanning the main stream which bisects the garden, and three on the tributary sources 
which are practically dry at certain seasons. Five hundred and fifty lineal feet of 
carriage road, thirteen feet six inches wide, have been entirely remetalled and other 
parts repaired. 
13. No special excursion for collecting botanical specimens has been undertaken 
by myself this year, but on each occasion I have gone out on forest duty, 1 have take li- 
the necessary apparatus and a collector and added considerably to the collection of 
specimens in the herbarium, and to plants in cultivation in the garden. In Septem- 
ber, the Overseer, Mahomad Haniff, went out to the Lankawi Islands for a fortnight, 
but the monsoon was blowing so strong at the time that he found it impossible to get 
far. 1 am of opinion that if one could get about there in the middle of the rains, 
there are many interesting deciduous rock plants to be collected that one never sees 
in the dry season, but I know from experience that boating at that season is difficult 
and dangerous. However, he brought, back several interesting plants some of which 
have since flowered and two of the Orchids, a Bulbophyllum and Dendrobium , have 
been described by Mr. Ridley in manuscript as new species. 
14. 1 he expenditure on this Garden during the year amounts to $4,497.44 as ' 
shown in Appendix A, and the Revenue derived from sale of plants and use of Swim- 
ming Bath to 8588.20, This expenditure covers the cost of renewal of plant-shed, 
remetalling of roads and in fact all matters except the construction of bridges which 
was a budget item and carried out by the Public Works Department. The amount 
collected as revenue has been paid in weekly to Revenue Account. 
Governor’s Hill Bungalow Garden. 
15. Mr. O'KEEFE returned from leave and resumed duty on tlfe 2nd February 
and has, in addition to his own duties, been acting as Signal Sergeant since the end 
of May. He reports having been handicapped as regards cooly labour during the last 
three months in the year, being for some time three and four men short out of a staff 
of seven, which he attributes to higher pay being obtainable elsewhere. 
1 6. The rainfall was less than in the previous year by about 30 inches, the wet- 
test month being September with 33 inches, and the driest, December with 127 inches 
only. 
17. With an adequate supply of manure and water a great many , kinds of 
European Vegetables and flowers can be grown on this hill from November to March, 
but the .present cost of carrying up manure is prohibitive, and when the rainfall falls 
to a point so low as in December last the rain water tanks on which we are depend- 
ant for gardening purposes become exhausted and it then requires all the available 
labour to carry from the nearest spring enough water to keep things alive. When 
the hill railway is made, it is hoped that the first of these troubles will be overcome, 
and I hope that the time will then not be far distant when water will also be made more 
easily available. 
18. No new work has been undertaken, the sum authorised for upkeep being 
barely sufficient to keep the grounds in order, to grow enough ornamental plants for 
house decoration when the Bungalow' is occupied, and maintain a regular small 
supply of vegetables. When the railway is made the hill will be largely visited bv 
travellers passing through as well as by residents in the Island, and in that case more 
money should be spent in making the hill attractive. 
Experimental Nursery. 
19. The experimental Nursery on Government Hill has been practically aban- 
doned for two years and steps are now being taken to re-afforest the site with useful 
trees. 
Coco-nut Tree Preservation. 
20. Mr. BALHETCHET, Inspector of Coco-nut trees, and two men have been 
employed six months in the year in Penang and six in Province Wellesley, in 
inspecting plantations, &c., and in serving notices on persons having on their pre- 
mises dead trees or other matter likely to prove breeding places for beetles. The 
number of dead trees reported is less than in previous years and I believe this is 
