should be taken down from its support, the lower leaves removed, and the stem up 
to the junction of the branches layered down in a previously prepared hole as near 
the support as is consistent with the safety of its roots, and the soil then replaced. 
Treated in this manner, roots are emitted along the whole length of the stem that has 
been buried, the plant is better able to withstand drought, and fruit is produced from 
near the ground up to any height that may be desired. 
5. At R4ja Itarn, which was reached by walking for five or six miles along the 
boundary line that divides the Dindings from Perak, I saw near a native house a plant 
of China grass ( Rhea or Ramie ) which has attracted considerable attention of late on 
account of its valuable fibre. The owner of the garden stated that he was in the 
habit of cutting it down for the manufacture of fishing lines about once a month. At 
the time T saw it the shoots were four or five feet high, and as clean as could be de- 
sired. The soil at this place is a peculiar clayey loam of a light colour. 
6. There are a variety of soils in the District, some of which would produce 
cloves, nutmegs, pepper, Liberian coffee, chocolate, indigo, coco-nuts, paddy, &c. 
7. In order to encourage the cultivation of economic products other than those 
mentioned in para. 8, which are already established, especially pepper, coffee, cloves 
and nutmegs, I would suggest the formation of a small nursery in Pangkor, of about 
an acre in extent, where plants could be raised or planted temporarily on their arrival 
from Penang or Singapore, previous to distribution to intelligent natives willing to 
give them a fair trial. 
8. After careful examination, in company with the District Officer, we came to 
the conclusion that the most suitable place for this purpose would be a piece of land 
near the Recreation Ground, which combines the advantages of fairly good land with 
an abundant water supply, and is sufficiently near the District Officer’s quarters to 
allow of his personal supervision. 
9. This land would have to be cleared and fenced to keep out animals, and a 
small house put up to accommodate two gardeners, who would be sufficient to carry 
on the work when it is fairly started. 
10. The cost of clearing, fencing and stocking this nursery, including young 
plants of cloves, nutmegs and pepper to be purchased this year, need not exceed 
$500, and the other up-keep would be the salaries of two Javanese at about $18 per 
mensem. 
I discussed the matter thoroughly with Mr. Merewether, who takes an intense 
interest in the matter, and one of the first things done would be to raise a quantity of 
dadap and pepper plants for distribution, a supply of seeds of the former being avail- 
able on the spot. 
11. There is regular communication betw r een Penang and Pangkor, and seeds 
are easily transmitted, and an Officer of this Department could occasionally run down 
for a day or two to give practical instruction. 
At present there is no accommodation for visitors to the District, which doubt- 
less prevents many persons, who would otherwise do so, from spending a day or two 
on the Island, and judging for themselves of the capability of the soil, &c. I under- 
stand, however, from the District Officer, that it is intended to erect a Rest-house 
on the beach which will be a great convenience. 
12. It should be borne in mind that, while there is great need for developing 
the agricultural capabilities of the Dindings, the Government possess in the existing 
forests a most valuable crop, which in some parts of the District, considering the 
nature of the soil, quality of the timber and the facility with which it can be brought to 
market, is, if carefully conserved and economically worked, probably of greater value 
than anything that can be planted, besides the advantages of having a fair proportion 
of forest land as regards its bearing on climatic changes. 
13. These areas should be settled in good time, and their extent and position 
shown in the map when the contemplated survey of the District is undertaken. 
C. CURTIS, 
Assistant Superintendent of Forests, Penang. 
