Annual Report on the Botanic Gardens, Singapore, 
for the Year 1908. 
Staff. 
The Director returned from leave on the 24th January, and Mr. Derry, the 
Curator, left on the same day for long leave, Mr. T. W. Main was appointed as Assistant 
Curator on 1st April. The Department now has for the first time in its existence 
two European Assistants in Singapore. This addition to the staff has been urgently 
required for many years, as the amount of work demanded of the Department has 
increased to such an extent that a single Assistant could not cope with it ; Mr. Main 
takes charge of the Upper Garden, and Mr. Derry the Economic Garden. 
The coolies worked fairly well, but as the price of labour keeps up so high in 
Singapore and the Malay States still, the Gardens Department loses many of the best 
men who leave for higher pay outside. 
In the early part of the year there was a good deal of Malaria in the Lines, as 
there was in other parts of Singapore at the time, and on the return of the Director 
steps were taken at once to remedy this; the secondary scrub round the Lines which 
was swarming with mosquitos was cut down and destroyed, and all tins, broken pots 
and other breeding grounds removed, the mud drains from the Lines bricked, and the 
place generally cleaned up, when the fever immediately disappeared there being no 
more cases. 
Before this work was executed, however, one coolie who was attacked died in three 
days. This is only the fifth death in the Gardens Coolie Lines within the past twenty 
years. The other cases being two from Beri-beri some years ago during the absence 
of the Director on leave, one case of rapid acute Diarrhoea, (probably ptomaine 
poisoning), and one baby girl. When it is considered that of the large number 
employed during this period many are men who have left other employment in the 
Native States on account of ill health, this speaks a good deal for the healthiness of the 
Coolie Lines. 
Visitors. 
The number of foreign Botanists and Agriculturists who visits the Gardens still 
increases, and among the better-known visitors this year were : — Prof. Czapek, Mr. 
E. D. Merrill (Philippines), Dr. H. Winkler (Breslau), Dr. F. W. Foxworthy 
(Manila), Dr. M. Siedlecki (Cracow), Prof. N. J. TisCHLER (Heidelberg), Governor 
E. Y. Miller (Palawan), Mr. G. C. Druce (Oxford), Dr. H. P. Stevens, Mr. 
Herbert Wright and C. Kelway Bamber, Mr. Dubedat and M. Jourdan 
of Phuquoc, E. J. Kappler (Manila), C. E. Herbert (Port Darwin), Mr. Water- 
house (Honolulu), Mr. A. H. BENSON Agricultural Deparment, Brisbane, Mr. 
C. S. Bankes (Manila) ; besides the usual large number of planters from the Malay 
States, Borneo, Sumatra, Riouw and other neighbouring countries. 
Garden Rules. 
The Garden Rules were revised with the approval of His Excellency the Governor 
and gazetted. Few alterations were necessary, but a regulation as to Motor Cars was 
added. 
Buildings. 
During the year the Clerk's and Foreman-Gardener’s quarters in the Economic 
Gardens were entirely rebuilt by the Public Works Department, a new glass house 
was built in the Upper Gardens at a cost of $970. It measures 52 feet long, 12 feet 
broad and 1 1 feet 6 inches high and on the outer side a row of frames was built 52' x 
5' X 2 \\ This house is most useful for delicate plants, succulents, orchids and the 
