2 
Among the best known visitors were the Grand Duke and Duchess of 
Brunswick ; Sultan OF Lubwa, Shan States ; Dr. Willis (Ceylon) ; E. GedgE; Prof. 
Robert Wallace ; Mr. Strickland (Mysore) ; Dr. Gunning (Leicestershire) ; 
G. P, Wilder (Honolulu) ; E. A. Korn (New York) ; A. S. Hardy (New York) ; 
I. E. Fraser (Sydney) ; E. DE Kruyff (Department of Agriculture, Buitenzorg) ; 
A. W. Prautch (Manilla); I. VAN BreRO (Batavia); H. E. Westendorp (Java); 
OTIS BARRETT (Washington) ; Baron C DE S LOHMAN (Inspector of Native 
Agriculture, N. Indies); Dr. Schlechter (Kgl. Bot. Museum. Dahlem) ; M. C. 
COISPELLIER (French Indo-China) ; A. LEGRAND (Phuquoo); Mr. BEEBE; Dr. George 
Klebs (Heidelberg); Georges Vernet; Capt. C. A. Littler (Commercial 
Agent for Tasmania); R. Spangenberg (German New Guinea); Prof. G. Senn 
(Basel); Dr. S V. SlMON (Gottingen); Dr. Oskar Walther and Dr. N. MAXIMOW 
(St. Petersburg); Dr. Barthels ; M. E. M. Leplaf. (Brussels); Dr. Henkel. 
(Darmstadt); Dr. PlAYATA ; Y. KAGAMI (Director Horticultural College, Chibaken, 
Japan); KUWAGARO HaGA (Bureau of Production, Formosa); Dr. TsuKIDA (Tokio) ; 
H. Ibara (Osaka). 
The band of the Middlesex Regiment played on numerous occasions by moon- 
light and the Fifes and Drums every Wednesday. These entertainments proved very 
popular. 
Tliere were many complaints about reckless driving of Motor Cars in the early 
part of the year, and one car containing a man and ’woman drove over one of the 
ducks belonging to the gardens lake and killed it. The culprits who were driving at a 
dangerous speed on seeing what they had done merely drove away faster and it was 
regrettable that they could not be detected. Steps, however, were taken by the police 
and several bad drivers were cautioned with the result that the nuisance much abated 
There were no thefts of any importance. 
Buildings, Etc. 
The new bungalow for the Assistant Curator was built by the Public Works 
Department. The old watchmen’s quarters was pulled down and new ones built on a 
more convenient site. A special vote was given for this. I he cooly lines were 
repaired and re-atapped and two insanitary houses in the lines destroyed and rebuilt 
in better position. A new cooly lines for Tamils with a well and out-houses was 
built at a cost of i,ooo dollars from Garden funds. The floor of the rubber-curing 
house was laid down in cement, and a new packing shed built and the potting shed in 
the Economic Gardens was rebuilt. The Garden store house was repainted and 
whitewashed. 
Telephonic communication has been established between the Botanic Gardens 
and the Economic Gardens, which has saved a great deal of waste of time in 
communication formerly done by messenger. 
Beds and Borders. 
Owing to the large demand for shrubs, etc., a small addition was made to the 
nursery, while new rose beds have also been made on ground adjacent to the nursery. 
This entailed a lot of work as a bamboo stump proved very difficult to extricate and 
ultimately two oxen with the help of a large gang of coolies were requisitioned to 
remove it. 
The ground behind the Herbarium on which the old Aviary stood has also been 
attended to. A few of the large boughs overhanging the Herbarium were removed in 
order to keep the building drier, while the soil was well manured and suitable plants 
planted therein. 
Tree cutting occupied a considerable amount of time, one in particular 
( Adenantheta bicolor ) being very awkward to remove. The wood was extremely hard 
and the stump took fully three weeks to dig out and remove. The last of the 
old original clove trees on the band stand had to be removed, having succumbed to 
old age. 
Throughout the year the troublesome waterwecds have had to be removed from 
the lake several times, while fresh Nymphaeas were planted round the margins to 
replace the ones which had become worn out. 
A small jungle path was also made leading from the flower house by the back of 
the fernery and propagating houses, joining the older rockery at the entrance to the 
jungle. 
The ground round the Assistant Curator’s quarters was cleared of bracken and 
scrub, beds and borders being made and suitably planted. 
