Thefts. 
There were no thefts of any importance during . the year, except those of a 
quantity of garden materials, evidently stolen for u-;e in private gardens. A notice 
was published in the papers warning residents to be careful as to what their gar- 
deners obtained, and the thefts whicli had been going on for some time immediately 
ceased. 
Gardens Committee. 
The meetings of the Committee for the management of the Gardens, after being 
long in abeyance, were recommenced at the request of a member of the Legislative 
Council. The members for the year were Dr. Ellis, Hon'ble W. J. NAPIRR, W. 
Evans and Mr. JAGO who was during the year replaced by Mr. SHELFORD. Ten 
meetings were called, of which six were attended by the Committee. » 
Aviaries. 
In accordance with Government instructions most of the remaining animals were 
sold; a few of the birds, some monkeys and a few other animals which had been 
a long time in the Gardens being kept. An unusually large number of animals were 
offered as presents to the Gardens, including a line tiger offered by the Sultan of 
Johore, hut almost all had to be refused. The abolition of the Menagerie caused 
many expressions of regret among the visitors with whom it was the most popular 
part of the Gardens. The funds however made it impossible to keep it up even if 
the dispersal of it had not been ordered. 
It may be hoped that at some future time the Government might found a .quit- 
able Zoological Garden, in Singapore, which with a low charge for admission would 
easily be made to pay for its upkeep as is done in many colonies where the expenses 
of procuring the animals and keeping them are very much greater than they would 
be here. 
The only animals accepted during the year were: — - 
A binturong ( Arctictis binturong) presented by Mr. C. A. Kroessen, (Celebes.) 
A common Berok Monkey ( Macacus nemestrinus ). 
A pair of Crowned Pigeons ( Goura Victoria ) presented. 
An Ibis ( Ibis melanocephalus ) presented by Captain C. E. Remmers. 
A young pelican, presented by Tee Gay. 
A Monitor Lizard {Varanus salvator) caught in Singapore Town, presented by 
Mr. C. A. Ribeiro. 
A tortoise-shell turtle ( Chelone imbricata ) presented by Mr. Klinteberg. 
The two fine black storks from Pahang were accidently killed by a swarm of 
bees which appear to have stung both birds in the throat. 
Upkeep of Buildings, etc. 
The most important building work was the erection of a new herbarium and 
museum building by the Public Works Department. This is an ornamental building 
too feet in length and 28 feet wide, divided inti two rooms, one for the herbarium 
6q feet in length, and the other 31 feet long for a museum of economic specimens 
and laboratory. A verandah five feet wide runs round the whole building. 
The cost of the whole structure was 85,926. 
A building of this nature has long been required, as the office building was far 
too small to contain the library and herbarium, both of which have increased so 
• ‘Xtensively -during the last few years, and it was impossible to make a proper col- 
lection of our economic products still less to exhibit them, as there was not a corner 
in which they could be stowed. The transfer of the herbarium from the office build- 
ings will permit of the extension of the overcrowded library shelves, and the proper 
arrangements of papers and correspondence so as to be easilv accessible. 
On the site of the old deer-sheds, a small rustic summer house of tembusu posts, 
walls of split bamboo, and Liang roof was erected with seats inside and a veran- 
dah running round it. This has proved very useful as a shelter in rainy weather for 
people caught in storms at that end of the gardens. 
The Cooly-Iines, Clerk's quarters and potting shed were re-atapped and four 
small detached houses were, made for married coolies ; some of the woodwork of the 
plant-houses was renewed, but a good deal which required attention could not be 
done for lack of funds ; some of the soads were patched, and one or two of the 
main drains re-made. 
