to their climatic and hygienic uses. This has not prevented, however, steady 
perseverance at re-afforesting which has been going on, brought about by pro- 
tection, and assisted by artificial planting as far as funds allowed, thus building up a 
valuable source of revenue for the future, and especially so in Malacca, where the area 
of Crown Forests is considerable. 
29. Mr. Cantley’s recommendations did not only apply to the Colony, but 
equally with all their force to the forests of the Peninsula, which, ii carried out, in time 
would at all events prevent their indiscriminate destruction. But it is more to what 
has actually been accomplished in the Colony.that I would beg leave to point out. W hat 
was the state of things before 1884 ? As has been said, indiscriminate felling had been 
going on since the early days of the Settlement, the Crown Forests, such as were left 
of them, were the prey of the illicit tree-feller, who from want of any one to prevent 
him, helped himself to whatever he pleased; encroachments again went on unchecked, 
because seldom or never found out; fires were numerous ; and most Important of all 
the very sources of our water supply were being endangered both from destruction of 
forests, and the introduction of squatters with their pigs and other pollutions. All 
this has been stopped, and various parts of the island have been reserved, surveyed, 
and properly demarcated with boundary paths and fire guards, and an endeavour, so 
far as funds have permitted, to reafforest these reserves with young plants of the 
more valuable timbers which had become extinct on the island, and were getting 
scarce in accessible positions elsewhere. 
30. The total area of Forest Reserve in Singapore amounts to 12,965 acres, 
divided into 13* reserves. A description of their contents will .be found in the Annual 
Report for 1889, 
[The area of Forest Reserves in Penang and Pulau Jerejak amount to 11,226 
acres, and in Malacca to 42,000 acres.] 
FOREST DEPARTMENT. 
Vote, ... 
Salaries, 
Cartage, 
Seeds, 
Miscellaneous, 
Expenditure for 1894. 
... $999.00 
33.00 
... 24.50 
... 54-5S 
Balance, . . . 
$1,400.00 
$1, r 1 1.08 
$288.92 
$1,400.00 
WALTER FOX, 
Assistant Superintendent of Gardens 
and Forests, in Charge. 
