2 
Nephelaphyll u m pulchrum ; Angroecitm sesquipedale ; Stanhopea grandijlora ; 
Fernandezia acuta ; Pemstema elata ; Leptot'es bicolor Rodriguezia secunda ; 
Brassia cor data ; Oncidium papiho ; Cirrhopetalum m/fkoyanum ; Podockilus 
uncifera ; Arundina revoluta. . . 
The two new Cypripediums, C. O’ Brienianum and C. Chamberlainii were re- 
ceived in exchange. Of plants of interest other than orchids may be mentioned as 
having flowered this year : — D idyty ocar pus atrosanguineus ; D . semitorta } (from 
Mount Ophir) ; D. longipes, (Mount Ophwr) ; Aristolochia Roxburghiana , (Pahang); 
Leea amabilis, (Langkawi) ; Hypericum chinense ; Canscora new species (from Kuala 
Lumpur); Impatiens platypetala, (Sumatra); I. mirabilis, (Langkawi); Aglaonema 
costatum, (Langkawi). A very fine new Begonia from Tringganu, and two other species 
from Pulau Aor and Perak respectively were also introduced. . The Victoria regia, 
plants of which were formerly in one or more of the lakes, died out last year, and seeds 
since received have not germinated, so that now for the first time for many years the 
Gardens do not possess this plant. A very fine tree in the Economic Gardens, 
apparently an undescribed species of Mangifera ; was struck by lightning at the close 
of the year but it does not appear to be much injured. 
Lakes . 
6 . The big lake in the Gardens was drained off and thoroughly cleaned. _ This 
would have been soon necessary in any case, but it was found requisite to do it this 
year as a crocodile which escaped about two years previously had taken up its 
quarters in the lake, and defied all efforts to catch it. It at length beeame^dangerous, 
having seized one of the coolies while drawing water so that it was considered ad- 
visable to drain off the lake to destroy it. 
The new lake near the Tyersall Road was completed and planted with water 
lilies and other aquatics. The bridge across it was made and railed and the drive 
through the palmetum across the bridge into the Tyersall Road was finished. A 
Hibiscus hedge was planted on the outside and much work was done in removing 
unsightly trees and planting others in this pa'rt of the Garden. 
Economic Gardens. 
j. The arboretum on the upper part of the hill known as the Military Reserve 
has progressed favourably. Over ten acres was cleared of fern and brushwood and 
changkolled over. The plots for the different orders of plants have been marked out. 
and labelled and from Dileniaceae to Loganiaceae have been planted up with trees 
and shrubs, all of which have grown remarkably well, as the soil here is very good. 
Grass has been encouraged to grow and has been planted between the trees to pre- 
vent the excessive denudation caused by the rainfall, 
8 . The arranged collections of economics have been added to and continued, 
and many cuttings and seedlings of useful plants have been raised. 
9. A large number of economic plants have been sent out to various parts of 
the world both to private persons and to Botanic and Agricultural Stations. 
10. The Avocado pear fruited well this year, and a further supply of seed has 
been received from Kew and from Trinidad. The Cola-nut (Cola acuminata) has 
flowered but failed to set fruit. Styrax Benzoin also flowered for the first time for 
many years. . 
Attempts are being made to introduce finer classes of pine-apples into Singapore, 
and in answer t§ letters the Gardens received suckers of English hot-house pines 
from Kew and of West Indian strains from Trinidad. The Brazilian pine known as 
Abacaxi has also been promised but not yet received. 
Some plants of the Borneo Camphor tree ( Dryobalanops camphora) were 
obtained by the plant collector in the Indau district of Johor, apparently the only 
locality for it in the Malay Peninsula. Unfortunately most did not recover the effects 
of the long and difficult route by which they were brought down. 
ir. The barks of several of the mangrove trees are used here in tanning and 
it seemed possible that some use might be made of an extract of the bark. Experi- • 
ments have been made with several of these barks, but no record has been kept as 
far as I am aware as to what trees the bark was derived from. 
I boiled in a copper pan ten catties of the bark of the Tengah (Ceriops candol - 
leana) and the same amount. of Blukup (Rhizophora mucronata) and from each 
obtained a quantity, (10 per cent.), of a red brown astringent extract, which was easily 
hardened into a shining black brittle mass. _ . . 
• Samples of these extracts I sent to England in order to get an .opinion as to 
their possible value, but have not since received any reply. Mangrove bark extract 
