3 
(from some other mangrove tree) was last year sent home from Jamaica, but was not 
taken up by the trade, apparently from want of knowledge as to the value of its 
tanning properties. As the extract is so easily made, and the bark is practically a 
waste product at the wood-cutting depots in the mangroves, it seems worth while 
to try if its manufacture cannot be taken up for profit. 
12. The large seeds of Millettia atropurpurea , a tree abundant in many parts 
of the Peninsula, were forwarded to the Gardens by Mr. Hill of Linsum Estate, with 
a suggestion that they might be utilised as a manure. The seeds were ground up 
and mixed with the soil and some plants of Ccnx lachryma~Jobi were planted in a 
pot with them, an exactly similar pot of the same plant in similar soil without the 
grounded seeds being put alongside for comparison. At first the unmanured plants 
grew much more rapidly than those with the 'manure, but eventually the latter 
caught them up and were even a little stronger and healthier, but the result did not 
show any great value in the Millettia seeds as a manure. 
13. The cultivation of indigo by the Chinese has lately increased to a consider- 
able extent, but the dye is only used locally and has not been exported. There 
seems to be an idea current that Singapore indigo will not set, - but always remains 
liquid. This is quite an error, as it is easily dried and made into a fine powder. 
Samples of this have been sent to England to be appraised, but it is hardly probable 
that the dye as prepared by the Chinese with the most rudimentary apparatus and in 
the most careless way can be of good quality. Still as this climate has certain ad- 
vantages over that of India for the cultivation of the plant, it may be well worth the 
attention of The planter. A Bulletin treating of the plant as grown here will be 
published as soon as the decision of the home authorities as to the sample sent is 
received. 
14. During the year, Mr. Derry in Malacca made some experiments in ex- 
tracting pine-apple fibre, which gave a good result, but the expense of the manufacture 
of the best quality seems to leave a comparatively small profit. Similar experiments 
have been made^ here, and long-leaved pines have been selected and cultivated for 
this purpose. 
15. Enquiries have been made lately for a material for brush-making to replace 
Piassava fibre now becoming scarce. Mr. BULKELEY, a gentleman much interested 
in the trade, visited the Gardens to make investigations on this point, and after exam- 
ination considered that selected fibres of the sugar palm (Arenga saccharifera) 
would possibly supply the want. As the supply of these fibres throughout the 
Peninsula is very large and no use is at present made of them, an important trade 
might be opened up should they be found suitable. Specimens of these fibres and 
others from the leaves of the sago palm, areca-nut and coco-nut are being prepared, 
and when the series is complete, it will be submitted to experts. 
16. Further experiments in ringing the gutta percha tree ( L?ichopsis t gutta) 
have been tried with greater success than on previous occasions. It is a very difficult 
tree to propagate by cuttings, probably on account of the slowness of its growth. 
Great interest has been taken in its cultivation lately, which has been stimulated by 
attempts to form companies for the extraction of the gutta from leaves and twigs. 
A rtist. 
17. The Artist continued his useful work of making careful drawings of the 
plants of importance economically or botanically of the Malay Peninsula. 
Herbarium. 
18. A very large series of specimens have been added to the herbarium, which 
is now becoming a truly representative one of the Malayan flora. 
In the early part of the year the Director visited the Dindings, and the Larut 
Hills, and the Kuala Kangsa district, whence an extensive series of plants both 
dry and living was obtained, much assistance being given by the Perak Govern- 
ment. Later the Mount Ophir range was explored and a considerable number of the 
plants peculiar to that district obtained, including many novelties, among which was 
a species of Balanophora , the first recorded plant of this order met with in the 
Malay Peninsula. In August, Mr. Lake of the Johor civil service and Lieutenant 
Kelsall, r. A., traversed the Peninsula from Kuala Sedili to Batu Pahat, and by per- 
mission of His Highness the Sultan of Johor, a plant collector accompanied the expedi- 
tion. Good and important collections were made along the Sedili and Sembrong 
Rivers, on the high range of Gunong Janeng, and at Batu Pahat. With Mr. Lake also 
the collectors visited Gunong Pulai and obtained a characteristic collection. In Decem- 
ber the Director visited, while absent on leave, the ridge of Gunong Panti, and 
