5 
Cocoa . 
21. The cocoa plants introduced from Trinidad through Ceylon in 1883 are now 
fruiting well, and there seems to be no reason for the plants being a failure here if 
properly cultivated. The series in the Gardens comprises a considerable number of 
varieties, differing in colour and form of the fruit, all of which seem to do well. It is 
probable that in parts of the Peninsula where the soil is richer than in Singapore the 
cultivation of this plant would be very profitable. 
Tapioca. 
22. During the year, six varieties of the best kinds of tapioca used in British 
Guiana were received. They are highly esteemed in South America, and form a 
considerable portion of the food of the natives. They have grown very well here, and 
we have now a sufficient stock for distribution. 
Rubbers. 
23. The various kinds of rubbers mentioned in former Reports continue to 
grow well. 1 here is at present, however, little demand for young plants, a circumstance 
which would seem to point to the necessity of Government planting largely, as plant- 
ers, as a rule, prefer to plant crops having a quicker return. Meanwhile the consump- 
tion of rubber is increasing, and it seems probable that, with only natural reproduc- 
tion to meet the demand, at no distant date the supply will become very limited. 
Library. 
24. The Library has been re-arranged and catalogued, and the following books 
have been added : — 
Herschell — M eteorology, presented by the Royal Gardens, Kew. 
Gibson and Dalzells — B ombay Flora, „ 
Trinius — A grostographia, ,, 
„ De Graminibus Unifloris and Sesquifloris, ,, 
,, Clavis Agrostographiae, 
Dozy and Molkenboer — B ryologia Javanica, „ 
BlumE — T abelle Javanischen Orchideen. it 
Hasskarl — H ortus Bogoriensis. 
o )) 
DeCAISNE — H erbarii Timoriensis Descriptio. ,, 
Kurz — Burmese Flora, 3 parts. )f 
Walker and Arn # OT — ProdromusFloraelndiae Orientals, Vol. I. ,, 
„ Pugillus Plantarum Indiae Orientalis. „ 
Guillemin— leones Lithographies Australiae. ,, 
Kew Bulletin, for 1888. „ 
Hooker’s leones Plantarum, Vols. 1, 2 — 5, Series III, presented by the 
Bentham Trustees. 
P. Sagot — L es Differentes Esp&ces de Musa; presented by Dr. Trimen, 
Peradeniya, Ceylon. 
Thwaites — O n Genus Ancistrocladus, n 
Ondaatje — O bservations on Vegetable Produces of Ceylon. ,, 
W. Ferguson — G rasses Indigenous to Ceylon. )t 
H. Trimen — V ascular Cryptograms of Ceylon. t) 
Kelaart — N otes on Cultivation of Cotton in Ceylon. M 
Dyer — O rigin of Cassia Lignea. tt 
Ridley, H. N.— Monographs of Liparis, Microstylis and Orestia; presented 
by the Author. 
„ Monocotyledonous Plants of New Guinea, ,, 
„ Cyperaceae of W. Tropical Africa, ,, 
,, Scitaminae of Angola, }) 
,, Fresh-water Hydrocharidese of Africa, Jt 
„ Orchids of Tropical Africa, „ 
„ Orchids of Madagascar, M 
Durand — I ndex to Genera Plantarum, purchased. 
Veitch — prehid Manual, Vols. I, II, III, „ 
Nicholson— D ictionary of Gardening, „ 
Williams — O rchid Growers’ Manual, ,, 
,, Choice Stove and Green House Plants, „ 
Garden and Forest Reports were received from Ceylon, Jamaica, Trinidad, Bri- 
this Guiana, Natal, Calcutta, Adelaide, and Sydney ; and the Illustration Horticole. 
