8 
Expenditure. 
Salaries 
Bills ... 
Crown Agents 
$ c. 
5/994 34 
7,221 05 
3i5 79 
ExpensesTin Connection with Rubber Tapping. 
$ c. 
(a) Salaries ... ... ... ... 1,414 19 
(b) Buildings, Acid, Mangle, Plates, etc. ... ... 702 90 
Balance in bank on 31st December ... ... 1,960 29 
Total ... 17,608 56 
Botanic Gardens, 
19th April , 1910* 
HENRY N. RIDLEY, 
Director of Gardens , S, S. 
Annual ReportJ on the Botanic Gardens, Penang, 1909. 
Staff. 
The only changes in the staff was the resignation of Mr. Ratna Raj, the Assistant 
Overseer, who obtained a better position in the Public Gardens, Kuala Lumpur. He 
was replaced by Mahmood, from the Telephone Office. The Clerk, Mr. Aeria, died 
on March the loth and was replaced by Mr. L. S. INGRAM on March the 9th. The 
health of the coolies was better than usual, and this I attribute to better housing 
arrangements. 
Weather. 
The year under review was even wetter than 1908, which was characterized as a 
very wet one, the rainfall at the Criminal Prison being no less than 130 inches, as 
against Hi inches in 1908, and 70 inches in 1907 ; out of this total 58 inches fell in 
September and October. The result of this abnormal fall was disastrous. The 
enormous volume of water rushing down the waterfall stream carried away two of the 
weir dams, and making fresh channels wore away the banks bringing down several 
large trees, and many smaller shrubs. The canna beds planted near the stream were 
entirely washed away, and tons of boulders and sand strewn over the lawns on the 
right and left banks of the stream . 
Roads and Paths. 
As usual these suffered severely during the heavy rains and it was not until the 
end of the year that the necessary repairs were effected. 
The Year’s Work. 
No new work of importance was undertaken during the year, chiefly on account 
-of my time being taken up with organizing the Agricultural and Horticultural Show as 
Honorary General Secretary. The first meeting in connection therewith was held on 
January the 15th and from that date onward, I attended every meeting except one, (when 
I.was ill) of the General Purposes Committee, and the various Sub-Committees, till 
December the 16th, the date of the last one. When it is mentioned that there were 
nearly two thousand exhibitors, it will be understood that the correspondence in 
connection therewith was very heavy. Special efforts were made to have as large a 
collection of flowering plants as possible from the Gardens at the Show. These were 
grouped in various parts near the entrance and were duly admired especially the white 
Cleomes . 
It is satisfactory to record that the Show was considered one of the most 
successful of the series. I submitted a separate report on the Show to the Government. 
The chief work involving the most labour was the removal of the avenue of rain 
trees from the entrance gates to the office ; these trees had become old and worn out, 
besides which they were spoiling the permanent avenue of Polyalthia trees planted 
between them. 
The ordinary routine of manuring and renewing the beds and borders was 
attended to. 
Upkeep and Buildings. 
The fern-house was entirely re-roofed during the year, and the side tables replaced 
in stone with cement facings. The Public Works Department erected new' quarters 
for the overseer and watchmen at the Chetty Temple Nursery. 
