10 
If proper implements for tapping the trees and drying the rubber were obtained, it 
might be of advantage to systematically tap all these trees as well as those in the Botanic 
Gardens themselves, where 21 trees exist ready for tapping. 3,600 rubber seeds were sold 
from the Gardens during the year for $74.25, the price ranging from $20 to $7.50 per 
thousand. 
Penang Hill. 
6. — The coolies employed in the compound of the Governor’s Hill Bungalow and the 
vegetable gardens were placed under the charge of Mr. Fernando, the Public Works 
Overseer on the Hill. The supervision was infinitely better than it had been for the previous 
two or three years, and the gardens gave evidence of increased industry on the part of the 
coolies. That this increased industry was not spontaneous was evident from the fact that 
several complaints were received from the coolies regarding the increased severity of the 
tasks they were called on to perform. 
A new additional vegetable garden was started just below Belle Vue Bungalow and 
has proved a success. 
Preservation of Coconut Trees. 
7. — Owing to the death of Mr. Balhatchet the returns for the first four months of the 
year could not be found. 
The number of notices issued during the last eight months of the year in Penang and 
Province Wellesley was 450. 
There were 13 prosecutions in Penang, 12 convictions being obtained ; the fines realised 
amounted to $40. 
Appendix B. summarises the work done under this head. The fines inflicted by the 
Magistrates for breaches of this Ordinance are so small that they do not act as a sufficient 
# deterrent. 
General. 
8. — As Honorary Secretary for Penang, I attended the Agri-Horticultural Show at 
Singapore in August. A fair number of exhibits were taken from Penang and a large 
proportion of prizes obtained, including the cup for the best collection of fruits and the first 
prize for the best Palm. 
g. — The weather during the year was more irregular than usual ; rain fell incessantly 
during the first eight days of November, while the fall in December was unusually high. 
The total rainfall on the Hill was 12379 inches, and at the Gaol 112 inches, as against 
100-9 inches and 78*31 inches respectively in 1905. The latter year was, however, an 
exceptionally dry one. 
10. — Nothing further was said regarding the proposal to make a large impounding 
reservoir on the site of the Gardens, and it is hoped that the necessity for it may not 
arise. 
The Municipal Commissioners acquired a large tract of land above the waterfall for 
the purpose of improving the present Catchment Area. 
Expenditure. 
11. — The usual statement of expenditure is to be found in Appendix C. 
W. PEEL, 
Acting Superintendent of Gardens. 
