9 
5. In the vicinity of the Band Stand, nine new circular beds, twelve feet in 
diameter, have been made and planted with new orchid-flowering Cannas, one variety 
in each bed. The result of this massing of colour is very effective. Cannas do well 
here and an important feature is made of them. Planted out in heavily manured soil 
and liberally watered they are in full flower in two months and go on flowering for 
an indefinite period, but to grow them to perfection they require lifting and replant- 
ing after six or eight months. 
6. Under the Diospyros discolor tree, opposite the Fernery and Orchid houses, 
rockwork has been constructed and the pockets filled with various kinds of ornamen- 
tal plants in pots so that they can be changed or renewed at will. Permanent 
planting of rockeries under trees is never satisfactory, as the roots ' of the trees 
impoverish the soil. to such an extent as to render impossible the cultivation, for any 
length of time, any but the most robust species of plants. 
& n. Outside the entrance to the garden, at the spot where building material for 
the hill Bungalows was formerly landed, and chair coolies congregated, a number of 
Crotons have been planted and fenced which when they grow up will be a decided 
improvement. 
8. From this poiijt 
feet, the main entrance 
to the Office, a distance of five hundred and twenty-five 
road has been remetalled and consolidated with the steam 
g. Three hundred and eighty-three lineal feet of side drains have been built 
with stones and Cement, and two cross drains on the main road bridged with Granite 
Slabs in place of wood which was becoming unsafe. 
10. At the top of the grounds the old wooden bridge that spanned the main 
stream has been replaced by a substantial granite arch that is in keeping with the 
surroundings and will last for ever. 
11. An additional room for herbarium specimens has been added to the office 
and the soil from the hillside that had to be cut away to make.room for this building 
utilised in raising the ground in front. Sufficient material had been accumulated 
during previous years to fill this room at once. The arrangement is not yet complete 
but \s sufficiently so to be useful for reference. 
12. With the exception of the construction of stone bridge and herbarium 
which were budget items and carried out by the Public Works. Department, all other 
expenses were paid out of the Vote for Maintenance of Waterfall Garden, and 
executed by the Garden Staff, the total expenditure being 14,498.50 as shown in 
statement annexed (Appendix A.) Ironwork costing $249. 62 for re-roofing the Fernery 
was purchased and the work will be carried out this year. The Revenue from sale 
of plants and receipts from Swimming Bath amount to $745.50 which has been paid 
in to Treasury account. 
1, As great interest is being taken in Para Rubber and considerable capital 
invested in its cultivation, l have again tapped the best tree in the garden from which 
ilb. of rubber was taken during the rainy season in June, 1897. A sample of this 
was subsequently sent to Kew and through the kindness of the Director, submitted 
to Messrs Hecht Lewis and Khan for valuation who reported it as (f beautiful 
rubber very well cured worth to-day (31. 8. 98) 3/3 per lb”. This had simply been 
dried in the sun and kept in the office for about a year. 
Being planted on dry gravelly soil this tree grows less rapidly here than those 
that are planted in moister and more suitable soil in Perak and elsewhere. At two- 
and-a-half feet from the ground it forks and the main stem measured at three feet 
from the ground in June, 1897, had a girth of 36 inches. Measured again in Decem- 
ber, 1898, after an interval of eighteen months, it had increased five inches in girt 
and the cuts had quite healed up. 
This tree is thirteen years old. 
This time the tapping was commenced on the 16th November which is generally 
about the end of the heavy rains, but there is here no season that can be counted on 
as absolutely dry as in Burmah and India, and in fact rain fell frequently while the 
operation was carried on which was spread over a period of thirty-four days. Oblique 
cuts leading to perpendicular channels, was made in six places (subsequently increas- 
ed to seven) at -the bases of which were affixed by means of a lump of clay and a nail 
small tins to receive the latex. An ordinary carpenter’s chisel was used for making 
and renewing the cuts, but both this and the tins can be improved on when the work 
has to be taken in hand by the practical planter. Earthenware- glazed cups with a 
hole near the bottom so that the latex can be drawn off without removing them will 
effect a great saving in labour as much time is taken up in fixing the tins securely 
when removed every day, and some rubber is also lost in doing this. A better 
