Annual Report on the Botanic Gardens, Singapore and 
Penang, for the Year 1909. 
Staff. 
There were no changes in the staff during the year. The coolies worked fairly 
well, and there was no sickness excepting a little mild fever. 
Visitors. 
The usual large number of Botanists and Agriculturists from all parts of the world 
visited the Gardens, as well as many planters from the Federated Malay States and 
elsewhere. In December a large number, some hundreds of American tourists who 
were travelling round the world, visited the Gardens, and expressed much satisfaction 
with what they saw. Among the better known visitors during the year were 
M. A. PrinzhoRN (Hanover), Count de KeRCHOVE de Denterghem (Ghent), Mr. and 
Mrs. ISENBERG (Honolulu), Mr. M. L. MERRIT (Forestry Department, Manila), Prof. 
D. Magnus (Berlin), Dr. P. J. Cramer (Buitenzorg), Dr. Berkhout (formerly of the 
Forest Department, Java), Max Fleischer (Berlin), Mr. San deman (Berlin), 
Dr. FUJINI, Prof. I. I JAMA and Prof. Suketeru Kikkawa from Japan, M. Duwel 
(from Algiers), M. DuLAC (Botanic Gardens, Saigon), Mr. S. Dunn (Botanic Gardens, 
Hongkong), Mr. and Mrs. TalbOT-Clifton (Lytham Hall, Lancs), Miss GlBBS, 
Mr. Gardener (Jamaica), Mr. Earle (Boston, U.S.A.). 
The Band of the Middlesex Regiment played by moonlight on many occasions, 
and the Fifes and Drums every Wednesday before sundown. This was very popular 
with the children, who attended in great numbers. 
Motor cars are admitted to the Gardens under regulations, and there has been 
cause for but little complaint. A few have proved a nuisance to other visitors by 
smoking, a matter remedied by ordinary care by the chauffeur, and except in wet 
weather seem to do but little harm to the roads. In most Botanical Gardens it appears 
they are not admitted at all. There were no thefts of any importance. 
Roads and Drains. 
The heavy rains during January to March hindered work considerably, and 
damaged the roads and paths considerably. By substituting brick drains for the old 
mud drains much of the denudation damage is prevented, and the roads are not only 
made better but are much less expensive to keep up. During past years, 
whenever funds would permit, the plan of brick draining all roads liable to 
heavy wash of rain has been carried on gradually, and there are now left 
very few roads which require this. Four hundred and sixty-four yards of brick 
drain, varying from 18 inches wide and seven inches deep to eight inches by six, were 
built during thcyear. The larger part of this was the drain running through the 
palm valley. The drain behind the band-stand was altered and a new catch-pit built. 
An extra catch-pit was built at the upper end of the lake, where the drains from the 
roads enter the Garden, and the open drain thence to the lake was piped. This has 
given a great deal of trouble, as the water brings down a large quantity of silt off the 
roads which is eventually carried into the lake, silting it up. Various attempts have 
been made to obviate this, but though improved the condition is not yet quite 
satisfactory. The Rogie road was patched and gravelled and the side drains 
re-opened, and the long border road, Garden road, terrace paths, road to store, and 
other roads re-metalled, raised or gravelled. The band-stand paths were covered 
again with sand for the benefit of the children who play there. 
A side path leading to the barrack grounds was closed and turfed over, and the 
fence closed at that point. It was seldom used, and nuisances caused by the ’ rikisha. 
coolies stationed outside were thus stopped. 
Buildings. 
A large Spathodea tree fell during the night of November 8th on the potting 
shed, and completely destroyed three-quarters of it, which had to be rebuilt. The 
; tool-shed was repaired and enlarged, A new soil-shed was built. A small cement 
