4 
fruits of the Straits Settlements, with a list shewing the large exports of fruit from 
the Colony (chiefly preserved pine-apples) a great deal of which is derived from 
Penang, Malacca and the Native States. The annual value of the preserved fruit ex- 
ported is $ioq,ooo. The import of fruit chiefly consists of plantains from the Dutch 
islands, oranges and Japanese persimmon {Diospyros kaki) from China, pumeloes 
and mangos from Siam. As a whole the fruit grown in the Colony, if ever of good 
strains, appears to deteriorate, owing doubtless to the poverty of the soil ; but there is 
no doubt but that careful cultivation might improve it greatly. 
15. The following fruits have been just introduced : — Barbados cherry (Mai- 
pighia urens), Brazil cherry (. Eugenia brasiliensis), Figs [Ficus carica ), Queensland 
plum ( Davidsonia pruriens ), Water melon ( Citrullus vulgaris ), Kei apple [Abena 
cajfra). All these are young plants and have not as yet borne fruit, except the figs. 
The figs seem likely to be a success, the few fruits which have been borne already 
are of good quality and size; and care will be taken to. propagate the plant. The 
Coco plum (Chrysobalanus Icaco ) thrives very well and fruits heavily, but the fruit 
is almost uneatable. The Tree Tomato (Cyphomandra betacea) is quite a failure 
as regards culture here, the climate being too hot. 
Various Economic Plants. 
Patchouli. 
16. The attention of planters has been called to the cultivation of this plant 
through the published correspondence of Mr. Curtis, the Assistant Superintendent 
of Forests, Penang, the authorities at Kew, and^some experts in London. I quote a 
letter from Messrs. PlESSE '& Lubtn, of New Bond Street, London, referring to a 
sample of the dried leaves sent from Penang : — 
“ The sample No. 2 is excellent. The commercial value we estimate to be 
“ about £80 or £100 per ton. No. 2 is less valuable pro rata , for the weight of stalks, 
“ which have no odour, and yield no attar on distillation. No. 3 [Urena lobata ) you 
u correctly describe as being used for the adulteration of the genuine leaves. The 
“ demand for leaves and attar of Patchouli is both steady and continuous. The attar 
“ fetches about 2/6 to 3/0 per oz. weight.” 
17. Patchouly grows as easily and well here as in Penang, and from the above 
extracts it will be seen that by cultivation patchouly may well be one of the 
minor products of the Colony. Detailed information as to methods of cultivation 
has been supplied in answer to various enquiries, but at the same time a caution 
has been given that the demand is limited, and that a large quantity thrown on the 
market would render it comparatively valueless, and that care should be taken not to 
grow it exclusively. 
Coca. 
18. The Kew Bulletin for January gives a very full description of this plant, with 
analysis of leaves received from Jamaica, St. Lucia, India, Java, Ceylon and British 
Guiana, from which it appears that leaves yielding 80 per cent, of the Alkaloid Cocaine 
are valued at 6 d. to 8d. per pound. The plant grows very well here, and might be 
easily cultivated, but the demand is limited, and though small and exceptionally fine 
samples might find a market in Europe, the supply from South America is so large that, 
without further extension of cultivation, that country could swamp the cocaine market 
were it to send in one-eightieth of the amount it could produce. From this it will be 
seen that extensive cultivation here would not pay, but small quantities might be 
grown at a profit. 
Cubebs. 
19. There is a great demand for cubeb plants by planters just now, on account 
of the high price this pepper commands. It grows well in Singapore, but there is 
some difficulty in procuring the right species, as undoubtedly many of the plants sent 
nut from Java as cubebs are merely forms of the wild and valueless Piper caninum. 
A figure of the true species has been published in the Kew Bulletin, so that it can be 
now readily recognised by us. 
Pepper. 
20. The cultivation of pepper is steadily increasing, and prices are well 
maintained. 
