3 
* 
Tvphomum. several new Didymocarpi, .a Zippelia, and other striking plants. Later 
in the year I visited, on leave, the Negri Sembilan, botanically an almost unknown 
district, where among other plants a new Shorea, and a curious nMv Phrymum 
were obtained, and thence I visited Mount Ophir where many plants were co lected. 
Durincr my annual visit to Penang, Province Wellesley and the Dindings, I also col- 
lected^ number of specimens. Plants from Singapore and Johore were also obtained 
during the year. , , • . . . v , r , 
A continuation of the series of dried plants collected by Scortechini, Wray, and 
Kunstler, was contributed to the herbarium by Dr. PR AIN of the Calcutta ^Gardens, 
and specimens from the Papuan region, including the new palm Livistona Woodprdi 
Ridl; were presented by Mr. MiCHOLlTZ, Mr. CURTIS sent 104 specimens from Irenang 
and Perak. 
Forestry. 
12. I visited Penang in June and inspected the forests on Government Hill, 
especially along the track of the proposed railway to the top from Ayex Hitam, 
found that it would not in any way injure the forest. And also visited Bahk Pulau 
to report on the proposed new reserve at Pondok Upik, a hill slope of about 300 acres, 
containing a quantity of good ordinary timber, but for reservation purposes of more 
value climatically to check denudation into the valleys at the base of the hills. A lew 
days were also spent in the Dindings inspecting the forest conservation at Lumut, 
and the new boundary paths and timber factory at Gunong Tungul. All seemed in 
a satisfactory state and reports were sent in to Government on the state ot affairs^ 
India rubber [Ficus elastica) was noticed growing remarkably well in Lumut, and 
might well be propagated and planted out. And para rubber was sent to Lumut an 
Balik Pulau for planting in the forest reserves. 
13. Duplicate specimens for naming or exchange were sent to the gardens at 
Culcutta and Kew, and ferns were sent to Dr Christ oE Basle ; Mosses to Mr. Mitten, 
Algae to Mr. West, and Fungi to Mr MASSEE of Kew, who reports that several of the 
latter were new to science. A number of specimens of timber were added to the 
wood-collection, including the Katinga wood of Siam, a very ornamental wood resem- 
bling Calamander wood, but produced by a wild citron apparently a variety o[ Citrus 
Medica. This was presented with a specimen of the leaves and fruits, by Hon ble 
F. G. PeNney. A small drying and preparing room was built on to the office for the 
work of the plant collector. 
Library . 
14. Thg following books have. been added to the Library : — 
Ferguson. — All about coco-nut planting (new edition) presented by the Author. 
Obach E. — Gutta percha (Cantor Lectures) presented by the Author. 
Raciborski. — Flora von Buitenzorg presented by the Author. 
Penzig. — Die Myxomyceten der flora von Buitenzorg. 
J. G. Kramers. — Een Reis in de Koffie, 
Ianse Dr. J. M. — Noot-Muskaat Culteuer in Minahassa. 
Bijlert Dr. A. V. — Onderzoek van eenige groud soorten in Deli (cont.) 
Greshoff M. — Onderzoek naar de Plantstoffen (part ii). 
Konigsberger, — Schadelijke en Nuttige Insecten van Java. 
Zimmerman Dr. A. — Die Nematoden der Koffie Wortels. 
)} Enchytraeden in die Koffie Wortels. 
De Haan. — Regen val en Reboisatie in Deli. 
Coville F. V.— Notes on Mushroom poisoning, presented by U. S. A. Depart- 
ment ofAgriculture. 
Nash V.‘ — American Ginseng. 
Farlow. — Edible and Poisonous Fungi. 
Chesnut V. K. — Principal poisonous plants of North America. 
Jeffrey E. C.— Gametophytes of Botrychium Virginianum. 
Swingle and Webber. — Hybrids and their utilization. 
Smith E. F. — Black Rot of Cabbage. 
Dodge C. R. — Report on Flax culture. 
Swingle W. — Grain smuts. 
Walpers. — Repertorium 6 vols. presented, Royal Gardens, Kew. 
,, Annals 6 vols presented, Royal Gardens, Kew. 
Pierre Flore Forestiere de Cochin Chine, 2 parts, presented by Rbyal Gardens, 
Kew. 
