4 
Weinland, Dr, C. A. F. — Reliquiae Weiulandianae. 
Preyer, Dr. Alex. — Uber Kakaofermentation. 
Chesnut, V. K, and Wilcox, E. V. — The Stock-Poisoning Plants^of Montana. 
Nanninga, Dr. A. W. — -Veranderingen Welke Deze Stoffen. 
Lefroy Maxwell. — General Treatment of Insect Pests 
Urban, Prof. Dr. Ing. — Vorgeschichte des Neuen Konige Botanischen Gartens 
Berlin. 
Prudhomme, M. L’ Agriculture sur la Cote est de Madagascar. 
17. Exchanges: — 
Bulletins of. — Kew, Jamaica, Trinidad, The West Indies, Ceylon, Buitenzorg, 
(ndo China, Land Record and Agriculture, N.W.P. and Oudh, Madagascar, Koloniaa! 
Museum te Haarlem, New York, L’ Herbier Boissier, Wisconsin (U. S. A.) 
Journals. — Journal of the Board of Agriculture, Experimental Station Records 
(America) Annales du Jardin Botanique, Annals of Royal Botanic Gardens Calcutta, 
Journal of Agriculture for Zanzibar, Planting Opinion Madras, Notizblatt Berlin, 
Queensland Agricultural, Dept : of Agriculture Western Australia, The Chemist and 
Druggist, Acti Horti Petropolitani, The Annual Report and Proceedings of the Agri- 
Horticultural Society ot Madras, Agricultural Journal of the Cape of Good Hope, Tro- 
penpflanzer (Berlin) Revue des Culture Coloniales (Paris) Journal D’ Agriculture 
Tropical (Paris). Bulletin of the Dept : Journal of Land Record and Agriduture 
Madras, The Agricutural Ledgers of India, Bulletin Du Jardin Colonial (Paris) North 
American Fauna, Indian Museum Notes, Pharmaceutical Review (America) Bulletin 
of the Ohio Agricultural and Experiment Station (U. S. A.) 
18. Purchased: — 
Indian Gardening and Planting, Gardeners Chronicle, Journal of the Linnean 
Society, The Botanical Magazine, The Tropical Agriculturist, Dictionnaire Iconograp- 
hique des Orchidees. 
19. Annual Reports : — The Forest Dept : of South Australia, Land and Agricul- 
tural Dept : Madras, Dept : of Agriculture Queensland, Merck’s Annual Report and 
Digest, Botanic Gardens : — Natal, Ceylon, Trinidad, Hongkong, British Honduras, 
Calcutta, Buitenzorg, New South Wales, Travancore, Barbados, Mysore, British Guiana, 
Gold Coast, Forest Dept : Madras, Zoological Garden, Ghizeh (Cairo), Queensland Accli- 
matization Society, Agricultural and Mechanical College, Still-water, Oklahoma (U. S. 
A.) Smithsonian Institution, The Year Book of Dept : of Agriculture, Washington, 
U.S.A. 
Herbarium and Office. 
20. Two hundred and sixty-nine herbarium specimens of Malayan Plants were 
received from Sir George King. Seventy-one species from Dr. Prain, Calcutta, and 
32 species of plants collected by Mr. CURTIS in Indragiri were received and mounted. 
One hundred and four species of plants and forty-four wood specimens were sent to the 
Royal Gardens, Kew; three hundred species of plants and one bundle of Palm leaf 
specimens were sent to the Kolonial Wirtschaftliches Komitee, Berlin. 
A collection of Malayan fruits was sent to the Director, Botanic Gardens, New York. 
One packet of Gutta specimens was taken by Dr. SHERMAN of the Forest Bureau, 
Manila. The herbarium specimens of the following Natural Orders were sent to Kew 
for critical comparison by Mr. H. N. RlDLEY, the Director; Viz : — 
Palmae. 
Aroideae. 
Agricultural Bulletin. 
21 . For seme time past a want has been felt by the Planters and others of 
having some kind of a periodical which would serve as a medium for the record and 
exchange of their experiences and also contain articles on agricultural and allied 
subjects appertaining to their interests. This want has been met by the publica- 
tion of the existing Bulletin in a somewhat different form, and by its issue regu- 
larly once a month. 
Some three numbers were issued up to the close of the year, and although it is 
somewhat early to criticise it in its infancy, I may be allowed to say that I can see 
very clearly that the Editor will have either to go about the Peninsula himself, and 
see what is going on, or else he will have to have some one with sufficient knowledge 
to do this for him, for it is obviously impossible for the Editor to write about subjects 
which require examination on the spot, when he is kept constantly in Singapore. 
