REPORT ON THE GARDENS AND FORESTS DEPARTMENT, 
STRAITS SETTLEMENTS.. 
BOTANIC GARDENS, SINGAPORE. 
Staff. 
1. The resignation of VINCENT CONIS at the beginning of the year, left a 
vacancy in the Upper Garden which was filled by CoORAY, a Cinghalese, from the 
Agricultural College in Ceylon, who gives satisfaction. 
The Mandor, RaSIP, formerly in charge of the Upper Garden was transferred 
to the Economic Garden, and for a short time his services were required as an inter- 
preter in Pahang during the war. Mohammed Aniff was transferred from the 
Economic Garden to the Upper Garden, but as he proved indolent it is proposed to 
dismiss him. . 
Visitors, 
2 . The number of visitors was as large as usual, and the band performances 
once a month on moonlight nights proved highly attractive. There was less damage 
done by theft in the Gardens and plant-houses. than in previous years. 
Aviaries. 
• 
3. During the year a number of animafs and birds were purchased or presented. 
Amono- the most important additions were : — One female Malay bear (Helarctos: 
malayanusj presented; one deer (male) (Rusa equinus) , presented; two remarkable 
varieties of the large squirrel ( Sciurus bicolor), purchased; guinea-pigs (Cavia 
porcella ) ; a rhinoceros hornbill (Buceros rhinoceros ), presented by Mr. J. Hilty ; 
an owl (probably Bubo sp.) said to have come from the Philippines, purchased; 
an egret (Ardea sp.) ; a serpent eagle (Spizaetus sp.) ; a brahminy kite (Haliaster 
Indus ) purchased; two pelicans (Pelicanus philippinensis) purchased; one lesser 
frigate bird { Phaethon minor) ; one large python, purchased, and others presented ; 
one Dips'as cynodon presented by Mr. HUTTON; one hamadryad (Ophiophagus 
elaps) captured; and one river turtle (Trionyx sp.) captured in Singapore, which has 
been p.ut into the lake. 
The only remaining wild dog and a fine sea-eagle were killed by poison admin- 
istered maliciously ; though there was little doubt as to the offenda-, the Police were 
unable to procure any evidence in the matter. This is the third case of malicious 
poisoning of the animals in the Gardens within the last few years. The ease with 
which poison can be procured in Singapore, and the difficulty of the Police in bring- 
ing home cases of this kind make it by no means easy to protect the animals from 
this treatment.. m 
Buildings. 
4. The cooly lines were re-erected and improved at a cost of $140. A small 
house was put up for the Kling coolies on the Economic Gardens, at the corner near 
Dalvey Road, so that this part of the Gardens may be protected from depredation. 
The large plant-house was repaired at a cost of $225. 
New or Rare Plants. 
5. During the year, many new plants were obtained from various countries, and 
from different parts of the Malay Peninsula, chiefly from Perak, Mount Ophir and 
Johor. Among the orchids never or rarely previously seen in flower here before, 
were the following: — Dendroblum phalcenopsid; Eria Kingii ; Liparis latifolia ; 
