4 
. collected there and at Kota Tinggi a number of specimens. Mr. T. Feilding, 
during his stay in Singapore, obtained a number of specimens from Muar, Kuala 
Indau and from the eastern islands of Pulau Aor, Pulau Tinggi and Pulau Dayong, 
lying off the east coast of Johor and a small series of orchid specimens was sent to 
the Gardens from Batu Pahat by NONGCHIE, Gardener to the Sultan of Joho # r. By 
these collections the flora of Johor hitherto almost a blank in the herbarium is very 
fairly represented. 
A good number of plants were collected in Singapore by the forest watchmen ; 
316 specimens were sent from Penang by Mr. Curtis ; 236 from Malacca by Mr. 
Derry ; and about 4o-from the Hon’ble D. F. A. Hervey ; 79 specimens chiefly from 
Perak from Dr. King. From Borneo, Dr. Haviland presented 382 specimens in- 
cluding a good series of his valuable collection from Kinabalu; 367 specimens from 
various Eas*t Indian collectors were presented by Kew ; and 478 from the collections 
of Wallich, .Beddome and Thwaites were received from the British Museum. 
Specimens of 430 flowering plants and 20 Algaee were received from Baron VON 
MUELLER from Australia. The total number of specimens received, most of which 
were mounted and arranged in the cabinets was upwards of five thousand. 
The number of specimens sent to various Museums is as follows : — 
2,902 to the British Museum. 
695 to the Royal Gardens, Kew. 
1,425 to Dr. KING, Calcutta. 
369 to Baron F. von Mueller. 
40 mosses to V. Brotherus. 
20 Melastomaceae to M. COGNIAUX. 
A few specimens were also sent to the Perak Museum, and to the Pharmaceuti- 
cal Society. 
The whole of the order Anonaceoe was sent on loan to Dr. King to aid him in 
elaborating that order for the materials for the Flora of the Malay Peninsula, and 
were returned by him critically named. 
Several new cabinets were purchased, and most of the old ones were repaired 
and altered so as to be more dust and insect-proof. 
Owing to the large accessions in the herbarium and library of late years it was. 
found requisite to enlarge the office, and a sum of $500 was voted for the ensuing 
year to pay for part of the needed alterations. 
Coco-nut Trees Preservation Ordinance . 
On the dismissal of the former Inspector, MUSSAFER Ali, M. A. Bakar was 
employed as Inspector under the Act, with one cooly. Inspections were made over 
the greater part of the island from time to time, and 278 notices to cut down 
trees and remtjve stumps and rubbish were served. The number of dying trees 
condemned and destroyed was 1,887, and 4>°5° stumps and pieces of dead trees 
were removed, and burnt or buried. Twenty notices were served on owners 
of tanneries requiring them to burn the refuse bark, in which the beetles were 
breeding, and five notices were served on owners of piles of cow-dung, and four 
on saw-mill owners requiring the removal of decaying saw dust. In all but ten 
cases the notices were speedily complied with, but great difficulty has been ex- 
perienced in the case of one of the saw-mills, in which the accumulation of saw 
dust for many years is so enormous that it is almost impossible to dispose of it. It 
covers a tract of ground of a very large extent to a depth of over four feet. To burn 
it on the spot would be almost impossible, and were it possible would cause great 
risk of firing the mills and other houses on the adjoining property, while to throw 
it into the sea, will be a long and expensive work. This, however, is being done. 
This mill has been doubtless the cause of a great deal of damage to the adjoining coco- 
nut plantations. 
Although a great deal of work has been done in the Kalang district, it still 
remains the worst in Singapore. This is owing partly to the saw-mills and tanneries 
and partly to the small patches of neglected ground, the owners of which are either 
too poor to remove the trees themselves, or have disappeared and cannot be traced. 
Still there is a marked improvement here, but as the vote for last year was insufficient 
to employ an adequate number of coolies to destroy the dead trees and stumps on 
the property belonging to the poorer classes here, a good deal of work has still to be 
done. 
Ten summonses were taken out against persons not complying with the notices 
served. In four cases an extension of time was allowed, and the work completed, 
and in two cases the defendants could not be found, so that they had to be struck 
off. In the remaining four, fines were inflicted to the amount of $24 in all. 
