2 
During the year, a catalogue of the Garden plants was drawn up. _ It is hoped 
that it may be printed this year, as it will be useful as a reference list, and in arran- 
ging for exchanges with other Gardens. A bulletin, treating of the cultivation of 
indigo, patchouli, and fibre plants, was also published. 
A rtist. • 
The Artist, Mr.. James D’Alwis, was employed during the year in making draw- 
ings of new and rare plants peculiar to the Malay Peninsula. 
Experimental Garden. 
The clearing of the ground formerly known as the Military Reserve, for the 
arboretum was continued, and the positions of the natural orders as far as 
Urticacese were marked out, labelled and planted up with such species as could be 
procured. The economic groups were also further developed, and many additional 
kinds planted. A piece of damp waste ground was devoted to a collection of screw- 
pines (Pandani) . and a number were planted and labelled. 
During the year, a number of plants of economic value were obtained, including 
several new strains of pineapples, viz., the black pine of the West Indies, the Abacaxi 
from Pernambuco, and English pines from Windsor Castle. A valuable cooking plantain 
• was received from Jamaica, and a stock of the best native kinds' received from Malacca. 
Some seeds of good strains of Florida oranges, presented by Admiral Ammen of Wash- 
ington, failed to germinate. A valuable yam from New Guinea was also presented 
t to the Gardens, and is growing rapidly. A good stock of Cola nuts was received from 
Kew. This plant grows very well here, and has flowered, but has not yet borne fruit. 
Among fibre plants, Ur era tenax was received from Natal, and a stock of the 
wild plantain ( Pisang Karok ) from Malacca. 
Inspection of Coco-nut Trees. 
The inspection of trees, and destruction of dead or decaying trees, was carried on 
as in past years, and 279 notices were served on various persons during the year. Four- 
teen hundred and sixteen (1,416) dead trees and stumps were ordered to be destroyed, 
and twenty-six piles of rubbish, likely to act as breeding-places for beetles, were cleared 
away. In most cases, the notices were promptly complied with, as the Natives quite 
understand the damage which has been and is being caused by the insects, but in sixteen 
cases it was found necessary to prosecute. Fines to the amount of $33 were inflicted 
on seven persons. Six others, immediately complying with the notices on receiving 
summonses, were dismissed on paying the cost of the summonses, and in three cases the 
owners could not be found and the summonses had to.be withdrawn. 
Much trouble has been caused by one or two cases in which the piles of sawdust 
and refuse tan-bark were so extensive that it was impossible to entirely destroy them. 
In these cases the owners are compelled to employ men to turn over the refuse, and 
destroy the grubs and beetles, which, as the insects are found to have some value for 
feeding ducks, they are not unwilling to do. 
Experiments were made in destroying the larvae, with gas-water and with London 
Purple. But it was found that the former had but little more effect on them than 
ordinary water, while grubs put into London Purple seemed quite unharmed. 
During the year, one tannery was burnt down, and underneath and between the 
houses many larvae w'ere found to exist, nor had the fire made any great diminution 
in their numbers, as living grubs were found less than a foot below the ground 
where the houses had been burnt. 
Expenditure. 
$ C. 
Vote) ... ... ... 700 00 
$ c. 
Salaries, 
. . . 444 20 
Transport, ... 
76 61 
Uniforms, ... 
• • . ... 
10 00 
Expenses m removing trees and stumps, ' 
0 
0 
ON 
NO 
699 8 r 
Balance, ... . . .. o 19 
$700 00 
Herbarium and Museum. 
During the year, a large number of specimens were added to the herbarium. 
In an expedition to Kedah Peak and its neighborhood and, later,, to the Perak Hills 
I obtained 860 specimens; 259 plants were collected by Mr. Fox, and 175 by a native 
collector in Pahang; 196 specimens were sent from Penang by Mr. Curtis, and 
486 from Malacca sent by Mr. GOODENOUGH ; Dr. King ‘ presented 318 specimens 
