short stay at Kukub in Johore. The Director also visited Kuala Lumpur for a few 
days in December to consult with other members of the Committee as to steps to be 
taken for the International Rubber Exhibition to be held in London this year. 
Publications, etc. 
The “ Bulletin ” was published every month as usual, and there was an increased 
demand for it. Besides articles written for it by the Director there were published 
the following: Symbiosis of Ants and Plants, Annals of Botany ix p. 457, Note on the 
Flora of the N. W. States, Malay Peninsula (letter to Sir J. Hooker) in “ Kew 
Bulletin" 1910. 202. Poisonous principles of A nacardicece, Pharm. Journ, vol. 84. 
360. The account of the expedition to Temengoh was printed also in a volume of the 
Straits Branch of the Royal Asiatic Society which, however, was not actually 
published by the end of the year. 
Figures and descriptions of three plants sent from the Botanic Gardens to Kew 
and flowered for the first time in Europe were published in the “ Botanical Magazine ; " 
they were Gamogyne pulchra n. sp. from Borneo, Chtrila rupestns Ridl. from 
Lanka wi and Tristellateia Australasica from Singapore. The fungus Eutypa caulivora 
was also figured and described from Singapore in the " Kew Bulletin." The usual 
course of lectures on Botany was given to the Medical students in the latter half of 
the year, and the Director' also delivered a lecture on Pomes and Diplodia at the 
Agricultural Exhibition in August. 
• 
Agricultural Exhibition, 
The last of the continuous series of Exhibitions of Agriculture and Horticulture 
was held in August. Till he resigned his post at the Gardens Mr. T. W. Main .held 
the position of Honorary Secretary, and was then succeeded by Mr., RODESSE. The 
exhibition attracted a large number of foreign visitors as well as local residents, and 
’ was very successful. As usual the Garden staff acted as committee men and judges. 
Some remarkably fine samples of rubber prepared in the Botanic Gardens were 
shown and a collection of historical rubbers, showing the earliest samples of cultivated 
rubber ever made, from the Botanic Gardens collections attracted much attention. A 
very large number of palms, aroids, and other ornamental plants were also supplied by 
the Gardens for decoration. 
At the suggestion of the Director a scheme for legislating against the spreading 
of the dangerous fungus Diplodia rapax in rubber estates was devised. The disease 
seems to be very prevalent in some parts of the Peninsula and might easily become 
extremely destructive. 
Bhang — As there is no known chemical test for Indian Hemp (Bhang'or Ganja) 
which drug is prohibited in the Straits, the Director had to attend the courts^on 
several occasions to identify the drug botanicallv- 
ECONOMIC GARDENS. 
The greater part of the work of these gardens was connected with the rubber 
industry. This work has increased to such dimensions that the whole of the staff of 
this garden was occupied nearly the whole time, and is not sufficiently large to make 
any great progress in other directions. The very large demand for rubber seed 
chiefly in the African Colonies entailed a vast amount of work in clearing under the 
trees/gathering, sorting, packing, parcelling and shipping. .A large number of seed 
had to be supplied from other plantations, to the various Colonies, but for some 
unexplained reason these seeds did not possess the amount of germi native power of 
those of the Singapore Gardens which therefore are in high demand and still keep up 
the price of ten dollars a thousand. 
A serious flood in January destroyed thirty Para rubber trees, mostly erf large 
size, and swept away a large number of seed, causing a considerable loss to the 
garden. The plot referred to in last year's report as cleared for planting has been 
redug and well drained and planted with 414 rubber trees and 32 plants of Raphia 
Ruffia and 32 plants of Raphia Hookeri f>oth palms of value as fibre plants. The 
rubber plot between Cluny and Bukit Timah Road has also been kept clean and the 
drains kept open. This plot has cost much labour and constant attention but as the 
rubber trees get up, the cost of weeding will be less. 
Experimental tapping . — Tapping and curing by different methods was carried on 
throughout the year, and 2,429^3. of all grades of rubber was cured and mostly 
disposed of within the yeaf. A fair proportion of the rubber was sold locally. A 
sample sold in London obtained a record price at that day sale. A large number of 
