Annual Report on the Botanic Gardens, Singapore and Penang, 
for the Year 1904. 
Staff. 
Mr. R. Derry returned to the East in January, 1904, and immediately took 
up the appointment of Assistant Superintendent. 
The Foreman-Gardener of the Economic Gardens, Ezekiel, left in October to 
succeed Rappa at the Government House Domain, ami was succeeded by JOSEPH 
BENJAMIN who left in two months and a half to take up a post in the Tramways at 
nearly double the salary. 
The constant changes in the posts of Overseers and Foreman-Gardeners during 
the past few years are detrimental to the progress of the Gardens. 
For the work of a Foreman-Gardener some training is necessary even if they 
have had to manage coolies before, which is rarely the case. This training takes a 
great deal of time on the part of the Director or his Assistant, all of which is wasted 
when the man leaves to take up an outside job where his experience is useless, and 
for his first year or so he is not usually capable of keeping the coolies steadily at work, 
looking after the tools, stores, or plants, so that this constant change of men not only 
entails a good deal of extra work, but often an absolute loss, in work done, and tools 
and stores preserved. 
The cooly supply improved during the year and a somewhat better class of men 
was procurable and in sufficient quantity. There was no sickness of any importance. 
The watchmen gave no trouble and prevented a good many petty thefts. 
Visitors. 
The number of visitors to the Gardens showed no diminution, and on the occasions 
when the regimental band played on moonlight nights there was usually a good attend- 
ance. Among the scientific visitors who visited the Gardens during the year were Mr. 
H. C. Pearson (Editor of the India-Rubber World, New York), Herr Ernst Stiegel 
(Berlin), M. O. Collet, Dr. Hallier, Dr. A. K. Schindler (Professor of Natural 
Science, Pekin), COUNT de Kergarion (Paris), M. C. & G. de Gingue, Dr. Pet 
(Buitenzorg), Staff Surgeon C. G. Mathew, Mr. G. W. Koeg (The Hague), Mr. T. 
B. Blow (Japan), Mr. L. P. Richmond (Manila), Dr. Detmer (Jena). 
Thefts. 
There were no thefts of any importance during the year, a few flowers only being 
now and then gathered chiefly by passengers. There was one prosecution for flower 
stealing, and a fine of five dollars was inflicted. 
Aviaries. 
The only animals added to the Gardens’ Aviaries during the year were a specimen 
of Attagen minor , purchased, and a Javanese musang presented. One musang and 
a crowned pigeon died. The funds of the Gardens not being adequate to keep even 
the small number of mammals and birds left, it is proposed to dispose of them as soon 
as possible. 
It is regrettable that this necessity has arisen, as the animals were the most 
attractive part of the Gardens to visitors, and usually the first enquiry of a visitor is, 
“Where is the menagerie?” A number of animals offered to the Gardens were 
refused. 
Buildings and Upkeep. 
The new building, for the Herbarium and Museum, was furnished as far as funds 
would permit, but more cases are much required, and the specimens of timbers, fibres, 
