5 
number of new and interesting plants were obtained. The most important was a new; 
species of Stichoneuron {Roxburgh iaceae) ; the only species previously known was a 
Himalayan one. The locality was richest in Acanthaceae , a number of novelties being; 
obtained. About fifty new species of plants were collected and some living plants 
of cultural interest obtained. It was intended that, after returning from Temengoh, 
the Director should attend the Agri-Horticultural Exhibition at Penang and go on to 
collect the flora of Setul, this northern Peninsula region being almost unknown 
botanically, but unfortunately he was unable from fever and poisoned wounds to 
progress further, and after a stay of a fortnight in Taiping Hospital returned to 
Singapore. The plant collector during the stay at Taiping collected many plants,, 
some of importance, in the hills, and besides collecting at Temengoh, made a consider- 
able collection at Lenggong on the return journey, where the limestone rocks provided 
a considerable number of additions to the flora. 
Herbarium. 
The Herbarium was largely increased during the year and the Director worked: 
through the collection, making a record of localities and distribution numbers, and 
recording species not included in the materials fora Flora of the Malay Peninsula, 
with additional notes on points of importance not previously recorded. This work, 
which occupies a long time, owing to the great amount of material, was finished as far 
as the end of the Polypetalae by the end of the year. 
The Piperaceae which had been sent some years ago to M. C. DE Candolle for 
identification were returned and a considerable portion of new species found to be 
among them. 
Considerable additions to the herbarium were made from the Director's expedition, 
and specimens from the Malay Peninsula were made by Mr. BURN-MuRDOCH r 
Mr. HOBSON, Mr. Kloss (120 specimens) and, from the Calcutta Herbarium, Malayan 
and Indian plants (318). 
From Borneo Mr. C. J. Brooke presented 13 specimens, from Bidi, Mr. MOULTON, 
Sarawak Museum, (25), Malay Islands, Zollinger, Cuming, etc., from the British 
Museum (93), Buitenzorg Herbarium (128), Philippines, Mr. W. T. Hutchinson (840). 
There were sent out of duplicates to the British Museum (1,504 specimens), to Kew 
(664), Manila (223), Calcutta (399), Berlin (587), Buitenzorg (150), Dr. CHRIST, Ferns 
for identification (83), Prof. BecCARI, Palms for identification (4), Mr. Lilly, Mosses 
for identification (79). 
The Herbarium is indebted to Dr. Christ and Colonel Beddome, Prof. 
Beccari, Mr. BrotherUS, Mr. Matthew, Mr. Massee and others of the Kew 
Gardens staff and M. DE CANDOLLE for identification of difficult groups. 
Library. 
The usual large numbers of journals and pamphlets was obtained from various 
Botanic Gardens and Institutions in exchange for the “Bulletin/’ and a few journals 
and books purchased, and a large number were bound. Of presentations the most 
important were the “ Annals of the Botanic Gardens, Calcutta;” volume of Calamese 
by Dr. BECCARI; the “Flora of Tropical Africa,” vol. XI, Royal Gardens, Kew;. 
“ Notice sur les plantes interessantes de la Flore du Congo,” by E. Wildeman. 
Publications. 
The “ Bulletin ” was published regularly throughout the year and there was a 
considerable increase in the number of subscribers. It was found advisable to transfer 
the seat of its printing to the office of the “ Straits Times ” mainly with a view of 
securing more advertisements. The grants of the Government and Federated Malay 
States, and the subscription from planters and others, are quite inadequate to pay for 
the cost of printing, postage, etc., and the reserve fund was drawn on for the deficit. 
This, however, was being rapidly depleted, and without the aid of advertisements it 
would have been necessary for its publication to cease in two or three years. The 
Director published with notes a manuscript of the plants and cultivation of Prince of 
Wales Island, written by Surgeon HUNTER in 1806, giving records of the first fruiting 
of the nutmeg and the early cultivation of the pepper and gambir in Penang. The 
manuscript was found in the British museum, and published in the “Journal of the 
Straits Branch of the Royal Asiatic Society. The paper on Philippine Scitamineae 
referred to last year was published. The types of this paper are in the Botanic Gardens 
herbarium. 
An account of the Flora of the Telom valley expedition in 1908 is being printed 
off in the “Journal of the Federated States Museum.” The account of the Flora of 
