6 
Vote, ... ... $2,360.00 
Expenditure : — 
Mandor’s Salary, *. .. $ 180.00 
Coolies’ Salary, ... 1 , 959-65 
Re-making Tennis Lawn, 5 2 * 9 2 
Materials and Tools, ... 62.91 
Manure, ... ... 18.25 
Miscellaneous Expenses, * 5-45 
Balance,... ... 70.82 
Total, ...$2,360.00 
Revenue from grass cutting, ... $25.00 • 
H. N, RIDLEY, 
Director. 
Botanic Gardens Department, Penang. 
The Assistant Superintendent of Forests was absent on leave in England for six 
months during the year, and in his absence, there being no European Officer of the 
Department available, the work was carried on by the Overseers of the Government 
Hill Garden and the Waterfall Garden. 
2 In accordance with the retrenchment scheme, the supervision of Forest Re- 
serves in this Settlement was transferred to the Land Office Department on the 1st 
January, 1895, and a report on their condition and progress will, no doubt, be made 
by the Collector of Land Revenue. 
Waterfall Botanic Garden . 
3. This Garden continues to increase in interest and popularity, and the number 
of visitors from passing steamers, as well as residents, is* considerable. It is, in feet, 
the one place to which strangers are nearly always taken if they have friends in the 
Island, or are directed to go if they have none. 
4. Further progress has been made with sloping and turfing the banks of the 
stream in places where slips have occurred, or were imminent, and this has absorbed 
a laro-e proportion of the amount of labour available after the ordinary routine works, 
such as mowing, weeding, maintenance of roads, watering, &c. had been provided for. 
3 A new masonry dam fifty-nine feet wide and eight feet high has been con- 
structed a short distance above the second bridge, and in addition to raising the level 
of the stream and preventing slips, forms an effective cascade, especially during the 
rains. 
6 One thousand five hundred and seventy (i, 57 °) 1]neal feet of rou 8 h mason, T 
drains have been constructed alongside the steeper portion of the carriage roads 
where the wash is most destructive. 
7. Preparation for re-constructing No. 2 plant-shed with light angle iron was 
commenced in December by lifting the more valuable plants and removing them to a 
temporary shed. Material for this purpose, to the amount of $490, was purchased 
out of the balance of 1895 vote, and the remainder, or at least as much as can be 
spared after payment of other liabilities, will be paid out of the current year s vote. 
This is a rather big undertaking to provide for out of the ordinary Maintenance, Vote, 
but it has to be faced, for until these old wooden plant sheds are replaced by iron, we 
shall have constant expenses in the matter of repairs. 
8 A great number and variety of trees and shrubs have been planted out in beds 
and clumps, and the general appearance of the grounds and plant-sheds made as 
attractive as possible. . , 
o. During the early part of the year, there was a good show of orchids m the 
sheds and of annuals in pots and beds. At the beginning of the rams when the an- 
nuals had finished flowering, the beds were filled with Coleus, Dracaenas, and other 
bright coloured foliage plants. 
10. The usual interchange of plants and feeds with various correspondents has 
been continued, but owing to the absence on leave of the Assistant Superintendent, the 
numbers distributed by this department were less than they should have been. 
