2 
Two ver^ shabby looking beds close to the fine row of Thrinax , near^he lake, 
have been removed, which has much improved the appearance of the spot. 
Many of the trees in the Garden have been pruned and cleaned, a coolie being 
kept almost exclusively for this work. 
Roads. 
During the year, the new road from Tyersall to Cluny Road between the Gardens 
and Mr. Burkinshaw’s property was completed and taken over by the Municipality. 
A new cart-road was made into the Garden from Garden Road to the plant-sheds so 
that cart traffic may not be required to go through the Gardens as formerly. 
Lakes. 
On July 15th, owing to the very heavy rainfall of 6.65 inches in the day, the large 
lake overflowed to such an extent that a portion of its bank was washed away, and it 
was only by strenuous exertions that the dam was saved from being broken through. 
The bank was afterwards raised to such a height that there is no likejihood of this' ac- 
cident occurring again. The Nelumbiums in the Neluinbium Lake having got very 
weak, the lake was drained and cleaned out, a*nd the plants, with some additional ones, 
re-planted. 
Plant-houses. 
The large plant-house has been kept bright and full of interesting flowers. During 
the year there were good shows of Gloxinias, Achimenes, Caladiums and Camellias, 
as well as the ordinary annuals. Among the more unusual plants in flower were 
several species of Didymocarpi from Langkawi : — Stauranthera grandiflora, Carex 
scaposa , Lilium Harrisii Crinurn (new species, Pekan), Ouvirandra fenestralis , 
Anthurium Andrseanum. 
Orchid House. 
The Orchid House has been very successful this year, and has been a source of 
great attraction, a great variety of local and exotic orchids having been in flower. 
For some weeks there was a very fine show of Pkalosnopsis grandiflora , of which over 
three hundred plants were in bloom at one time. There were also a fine lot of 
Calanthe veratrifolia, Sarcochilus lilacinus and other commoner plants in bloom 
most of the year. Among the less frequently seen orchids in flower were Dendrobium 
Dalhousieanum (from a plant collected in Singapore), D. hercoglossmn, D. tuberiferum , 
D. metachilinum, Liparis venosa , Eria armeniaca , E. Lindleyi , Claderia viridiflora , 
Cirrhopetalum elegans, concinnum, medusae, and several undescribed species. 
Calanthe rubens, C. Cecilies, Cattleya eldorado (with four flowers), C. Triance , C. 
Gaskelliana, Arundina densiflora, Spathoglottis JVrayii, Renan fhera kistrionica and 
Lowii, Aerides Lawrenciae, Arachnanthe (new species from Pekan), Sarcochilus 
arachnites , S. notabilis , S. unguiculatmn , carinatifolius (a new species from Christ- 
mas Island), Oncidium lanceanum , Dipodium pictum, Saccolabinm giganteum 
illustre, Goodyqra (new species from Singapore), Geodorum purpureum, CoMogyne 
mayeriana , C. Cumingii, Plocoglottis javanica, Thecostele zollingeri. 
An interesting lot of orchids was received from Trinidad, and though they suffered 
a good deal from their long journey, many of them are doing well. Among these were 
species of Catasetum , Epidendrums , Oncidium lanceanum , O. papilio and Lock- 
hartia elegans. 
A number of orchids are found to grow much more readily out of doors than in 
pots in the Orchid House. Chief among these are the Renantheras , Vandas, Arundina, 
Spathoglottis. A bed of the larger kinds of these was made on one of the terraces 
below the band-stand, and seems to be doing very well. The Anoectochili, Microstylis 
cuprea and such ^oft-leaved plants grow better here in open rock work, though they 
are very subject to the attacks of snails here. A number of orchids have been planted 
on the trees and are doing very well, and often in flower. 
Police. 
It having been found, as stated in last yeaFs report, that the Indian Police 
supplied to the Gardens were worse than useless, it was decided to replace them by 
Malays. These have, on the whole, worked better, partly from their being a more 
respectable set of men and partly from their being properly under control. There 
have, however, been a certain number of petty thefts of flowers ar^l plants which 
were undetected. 
There was only one prosecution, that of a Kling for cutting firewood in the 
Garden, who was convicted. 
