4 
greatest value in a country where specimens of many plants are almost impossible to 
preserve satisfactorily, and it is the more unfortunate inasmuch as the Malay Artist at 
Penang, trained carefully in botanical drawing, has also left for a post of an inferior 
class of work, but higher pay. 
The Agricultural Bulletin. 
The Bulletin was published regularly each month. It contained 419 pages and 
nine plates. The Government of the Straits Settlements and the Federated Malay 
States contributed as before $600 to its cost. The demand for it increased to nearly 
double what it was last year, 600 copies being distributed, each month, Nos. f, 8, 9 and 
10 of the first volume being all sold out are being reprinted to supply the demand for 
them. The old series was also much in request and several numbers- have had also 
to be reprinted. 
The Herbarium. 
During the year l had little opportunity of getting any collecting expeditions as it 
was not possible to leave the Gardens while the temporary Assistants were new to the 
work. But in July I visited Sarawak on leave and taking a plant-collector obtained 
a large series of herbarium specimens as well as living plants, many of which were new 
to Science. Herbarium specimens were received in exchange or by presentation from — ■ 
Hose, Miss. — Bornean Grasses. 
Shelford, Mr. R. — Bornean plants. 
Prain, Dr. — -Malay Peninsula plants collected by Wray, Scortechini and Kunstler. 
Micholitz, Mr. — Borneo plants. 
Merrill, Mr. — Philippine plants. 
Buru-Murdoch, Mr. —Peninsula plants. 
Machado, Mr.— Perak plants. 
Barton, Capt. F. R. — New Guinea plants. 
Moorhouse, Mr — Specimens of rattans from Negri Sembilan. 
Engler, Dr.— New Guinea plants. 
Napier, Mr. — -Negri Sembilan plants. 
Duplicate specimens were sent to Kew, Calcutta, Berlin and Sydney Gardens and 
to Mr. Merrill in the Philippines and Dr. Beccari. 
Eight new Cabinets for herbarium specimens were made. 
The Herbarium is now without doubt the finest for Malay Peninsula plants in 
the world, and contains many types and cotypes of plants from the Peninsula, Borneo, 
Sumatra and Siam. Although it is chiefly confined to the local plants it also con- 
tains valuable series from the islands of the Malay Archipelago and Australia, and a 
tew from Europe, America and India. Named Garden plants are often added for 
reference, in identifying cultivated plants. 
Library. 
The Library has so much increased that the small accommodation it had proved 
far too small, so that the new building destined for the herbarium was much required, 
so that the rooms in which the herbarium is packed will be in future available for the 
extension of the library Although the money which could be annually offered for 
the purchase of books has been very limited, the collection is an excellent working 
one, and several professional botanists have come to study the catalogue, and pro- 
fessed themselves well pleased with the library. A very large number of books and 
papers are received in exchange for the Gardens Reports and especially the Agricul- 
tural Bulletin. 
The following books were presented by their respective authors or Governments:— 
Nanninga, Dr. A. W. J. — -Invloed van den Boden op de Samenstellung van Het 
Theeblad. 
Koningsberger, Dr. J. C. — -Ziekten van Ryst Tabak en andere Culturgewassen. 
Hunger, Dr. F. W. J. — De Mosaick Ziekte bij Deli. 
Hissink, Dr. G. J. — Tabaks Cultur. 
Koorders and Valeton — Boomsorten op Java, part 7-9 
De Bie, H. C. H. — De Landbouw der inlandsche Bevolkung. 
Der Botanischer Garten und die Botanische Museum der Universitat Zurich. 
Penzig, O. and Saccardo, P. A— Diagnoses Fungorum Novorum in Insula Javae, 
presented by the Authors. 
Maiden, J. H. — Eucalyptus tereticornis and E, rostratus. 
Notes on some unrecorded plants collected by \\ . \ . Fitzgerald. 
Critical revision of the Genus Eucalyptus. 
