*5 
f 
in Peuang. i am in hopes however that a fair proportion of cuttings from large trees 
treated in the same manner will succeed and experiments will be commenced as soon 
as the season is suitable. 
8. The so called young plants used for propagation (which 1 prefer to call 
stumps to distinguish them from truly young seedlings or cuttings) are found plenti- 
ful in places near where I was staying. They are in reality old suppressed seedlings 
from the size of a lead pencil to that of a man’s little finger, with a long tap root two 
to three feet long, as thick as a man’s thumb, and perhaps twenty or more years old. 
They are pulled up and cut back to within about six inghes of the point that was 
level with the ground, and then planted horizontally on a sloping bank in damp shady 
jungle until they make new erect shoots at right angles to the stem with two or three 
fully developed leaves, when they are cut oft with about two inches of the old wood 
attached, and planted in boxes until they root. The process is a slow one, and plants 
large enough to put out in plantations cannot be produced in less than eighteen 
months. When once rooted they grow well and make good plants. We -received a 
box of these cuttings last October when only a few of them had roots, and in January 
they had rooted and were potted off singly in five inch pots. Next to seedlings 
collected in a very young state these are the best plants 1 have seen. 
9- In the Singapore Gardens 1 saw a number of young seedling plants that 
had been brought from Borneo, and if plants of this stamp are obtainable they 
should be purchased in large numbers for Malacca and Penang and forwarded in 
the boxes as they arrive to Nurseries as near as possible to the places in 
which they are to be eventually planted. 1 also saw in the same place a 
number of boxes of stumps of which 1 have no very high opinion, unless they are 
utilised for propagation in the manner I have already described in paragraph 8. 1 
doubt whether these old stumps, from which one half the tap root has been cut in 
order to get them into boxes, will ever make satisfactory growth. 
■ C. CURTIS, 
Assistant Superintendent of Forests. 
