12 
by the addition of a few drops of acetic acid, and not smoked, was submitted for 
valuation to three quite independent experts, two in England and one in America, 
and they all agree in valuing it at from four pence to six pence per lb. less than 
previous samples from the same tree which coagulated naturally and had been smoked. 
All remark that the rubber is good, but that there appears to be something wrong in 
the curing. I was induced to try this method after seeing some nice looking samples 
prepared in this way and exhibited at the Penang Agricultural Show, but it does not 
appear to be a method to be adopted. It is possible that too frequent tapping may 
cause deterioration in the latex and whether this be so or not will be proved in the 
next tapping. The valuers however all remark that the fault appears to be in the 
curing. 
- Gfutta Jelutong. 
21. A samp e of Gutta Jelutong received from the Senior District Officer, 
Province Wellesley, was sent to the Director, Royal Gardens, Kew, who submitted it 
to the well known brokers, Messrs. Hecht, LEVIS & Khan who state that it is known 
in the London Market as “ Pontianak/’ and estimated the value in October at 
£ 19 - 20 per ton. The tree from which this is obtained (Dyera costulata) is fairly 
common throughout the Peninsula and in the Islands of the Malayan Archipelago. 
Botanical Expeditions — Langkawi. 
22. In addition to the two expeditions to Indragiri in Sumatra, and to Muar in 
Johore territory, especially in connection with the collection of guLta peroha plants 
or seeds, a short trip was made to the Lar.gkawi Islands in November for the purpose 
of collecting botanical specimens. On this occasion I was absent from Penang five 
days, the greater portion of two of them being occupied in going and returning. 
During this short trip many interesting and, 1 believe, some new plants were collected. 
I went up to a small Island called Pulau Hujong Dun which is about fifteen miles 
further North than 1 had been on any previous occasion. This Island does not 
-exactly belong to the Langkawi cluster but rather to a small group closer to the main 
land off the Malay State of Satul, from the North end of it the small village of Wala 
Bara on the mainland is distinctly visible. At this point the hills come quite close 
down to the sea, and our Langkawi pilot, who knows the place well, says they are 
inhabited by Sam-Sam. We anchored the Launch in a beautiful little bay with four 
fathoms of water and circumnavigated Pulau Hujong Duri in one of the boats. The 
Western side, which is exposed to the full blast of the South-West Monsoon, is very 
rugged, and the vegetation less varied and luxuriant than on the Eastern side. The 
striking features on the West side are giant Euphorbias and a species of Pandanus 
in great numbers. The hard woody portion of the former is in great repute as a 
medicine for bowel complaints under the name of Tras Sudu. While at Kuah l 
made some inquiries about guttas as 1 was desirous of satisfying myself as to what 
kind of tree produces the article that is exported from these Islands under the name 
of “ gutta minjato." Having now seen leaf specimens I have little doubt that it is a 
•species of Bassia. It is a low grade gutta of no great market value. Gutta Laban, 
that is to sav Palaquium species, which are the only trees yielding true gutta percba, 
do not extend so far north as these Islands. I have made careful inquiries on this 
point on this and previous visits, and have now no doubt that Penang is almost the 
Northern limit' of these trees. 1 he two largest Islands of this group, Langkawi and 
Trutau, contain some excellent timbe'r of which the greater portion comes to Penang. 
I saw on the beach at Kuah some fine straight logs over sixty feet long and fourteen 
inches square which had been cut for the new tin smelting works in Province 
Wellesley. The working of timber was also commenced some time ago at Pulau 
Adang, a large Island to the West of Langkawi, and which so far as I know has not 
yet been visited by any botanist, but the men and buffaloes have been brought away 
and the work stopped on account of fever. 
Perak. 
23. The Christmas holidays were spent on the Perak hill, and by permission of 
the Hon. Resident Councillor, I took with me a man from the Garden to assist in 
collecting plants for cultivation in the Waterfall Garden, and for the purpose of 
exchange. Few of these mountain plants grow well lor any length of time when 
brought down to the hotter and drier region of sea level, but many of them live long 
enough to produce flowers from which drawings can be made. 
The past year appears to have been a great flowering one as regards forest 
trees in Perak as well as in Penang, as can be seen from the myriads of young 
seedling plants of all kinds everywhere. We brought back a large collection of 
Orchids, Aroids, Ferns, Gingers, Gesneriaceae, Melastomiceae and other small 
growing plants suitable for pot culture. Rhododendrons, of which I collected three 
species, have, 1 am told, been a wonderful siiow, but Jhe season was over at the time 
■of my visit as was also the case with the majority of trees. 
C. CURTIS, 
Assistant Superintendent of Gardens, Penang . 
