3 
Dr. Schlechter, Messrs. Vanden Gucht, Beaufort, (Chinde E. Africa), Hemings (Fiji), 
Harvey (Mexico), Chatterjee, Pereira. F. Pears, and others. 
The number of plants and seeds received and sent out this year far exceeds that 
on any previous year in the records of the Gardens. The increase in the demand 
tor plants from these Gardens is due not only to the development of the British 
tropical colonies, especially Africa, New Guinea, Seychelles and the Malay 
States, but also to the fact that these gardens are now considered to rank among the 
most important of the equatorial tropical stations of the world, so that all questions 
and requirements of tropical cultivated plants are referred to this department 
from the various foreign Colonies as well as from those of Britain. This not only 
entails a very large stock of cultural planes being kept, but increases the correspon- 
dence enormously, so that this Department has probably by far the largest corre- 
spondence of any in the service. 
Plants in Flower. 
The following plants flowered in the Gardens, for the Hrst time, Millettia Albiflora, 
(tree) from Pahang, M . atropur purea , Napoleona imperialis (shrub) West Africa, 
hassza sp. Getah Soontai, Sumatra, Kickxia africana (tree) Africa, M ascar enhaisia 
tlastlca (Rubber tree) Madagascar, Webera asiatica (shrub) Ceylon, Allamanda 
viola cea (shrub) Brazil, Passiflora Watsoniana (climber), Posoqueria longiflora , and 
/ . latifolia (shrubs) South America, Pavetta madagascatiensis (shrub) Madagascar 
Abutilon sp. Madagascar, Landolphia hendelotii (Rubber vine) Africa. Ichnocarpus 
frittescens (climbing shrub) Penang, Dipterix odorata Tonquin Bean, Homalium 
gvandiflorum (Tree) Singapore, Coffea sp. Abbeokuta coffee, C. Laurentii robusta 
Congo Coffee. Aristalochia Duchartrei , (climber) South America. 
Sacco labium Jissum (Orchid) Lankawi, A. secundiflorum Sinkep, Ccelogyne 
kingii Perak, Renanthera coccinea , R. Imschootiana Indo-china, Vanda limbata 
Celebes, Calanthe microglossa n. sp. Sumatra, Sabal glaucesceus (Palm) Trinidad, 
Iguanura sp. “ Teruno Dibdings, Zamia pumila America, Carludovica humilis 
S. America, Calamus Lt n deni Philippines. 
Cola acuminata and Allamanda William si fruited for the first time. 
Library. 
The following books and periodicals were added to the Library : 
Niederlin, G. The State of Nicaragua ; presented by the Author. 
Agricultural and live stock Statistics, presented by the Government of S. Australia 
A public Institution devoted to the Ex- Issued and presented by the 
tension of American Commerce / Philadelphia Commercial 
l he Worlds Commerce f Museum. 
Conversion tables of Weight & Measures ) 
Merck, E. Recent clinical reports on lodopin ; presented by the Author. 
Morrison, W. K. — Bee keeping in the West Indies. 
Altord-Nicholls, Dr. H. A. — The harmfulness of Bush fires ; presented by Imperial 
Department of West Indies. 
Seedling and other canes in the Leeward Islands; presented by Imperial Depart- 
ment of West Indies. K 
Pieters, A. J. and Charles, V. K. — The seed coats of certain species of Brassica ; 
presented by U. S. A. Government. 
Howard, L. O.— The Economic Status of Insects, presented bv U. S. A. Govern- 
ment. 
, WlJ 3eman, Ede.— Observations sur les Apocynacees a latex ; presented by the 
Author. 
Hackel, E . — Neue Graser; presented by the Author. 
Wright, H.— Observations on Dracoena reflexa ; presented by the Author. 
Heim, Dr.— Recherches des Dipterocarpees ; presented bv the Author. 
Angler, A.— Monographien Afrikanische Pflanzen und Gattungen Vol. III. IV. 
V. ; presented by the Author. 
Dyer, Sir W. T.— The flora of tropical Africa; presented by the Author. 
Sack, J. — Einiger Pflanzenstoffe ; presented by the Author. 
Cook, Theo.— Flora of the presidency of Bombay; presented bv the Author. 
Henson, C.— Sugar Cane ol Madras; presented by U. S. A. Government. 
Report on the United States Philippine Commission ; presented by U. S. A. Govt. 
Berichte Land und Forstwirtschaft in Deutsch Africa. 
Appel, O. — Paul Knutb, presented by the Author. 
