5 
Economic Garden. 
^ io. Considerable improvements have been made in the Economic Gardens. In 
the lower half the ground was turfed so as to prevent the damage caused by rain 
wash, which has had a good effect on the trees. Many half dead trees have been 
removed and a number of new ones planted, especially in the arboretum. 
The top of the hill has been partially cleared and planted with cloves, nutmegs, 
Sisal hemp, tea, coffee and cola-nuts. 
Among these is a small lot of the new coffee (Coffea stenophylla) a plant 
spoken very highly of. It is growing steadily and well, and at present does not 
appear to be affected at all. by disease. Plants have been distributed to coffee planters 
in different parts of the Peninsula for experiment and observation. 
There is still a great deal of land lying fallow in this garden, the smallness of the 
vote hitherto being issufficient to allow of clearing and planting, but as the vote has 
been increased for 1896 to $1,500, it is hoped to clear and plant a great deal 
more of this land. This is all the more necessary now on account of the rapid deve- 
lopment of agriculture in the Peninsula and its neighbourhood. Rami, indigo, Para 
rubber, coca, spices, as well as fruit trees, are in great demand and hitherto the 
gardens have been unable to supply a sufficient quantity of these and other economics. 
The expenditure is as follows : — 
$ c. 
Mandor’s Salary, ... 144 00 
Coolies' Salary, ... 714 7 1 
Tools and Stores, ... 19 44 
Bricks, Cement, etc., ... 43 7° 
Manure, ... 66 50 
Balance, ... 11 65 
# Total,... $1,000 00 
Revenue. 
$ c ' 
Fruit crop, 13 00 
Grass, 15 00 
. Total, $28 00 
Inspection of Coco-nut Trees . ‘ 
11. As the staff of this department was reduced to a single coolie, the amount 
of work that could be done was not very great, especially as during most of the year 
there was no assistant to the Officer in charge of the Gardens, so that it was impossible 
for him to visit the plantations and supervise the work of the coolie. 
One hundred and foity-nine (140) notices to destroy trees and stumps were 
served, and 448 trees and 8 stumps were removed. There were no prosecutions. 
The refuse tan bark at Rochor is still being burnt, and in some places the old 
accumulations have been built on so effectively as to prevent any lodging of the black 
beetle there. But the red beetle seems to have increased in numbers again in some 
places, especially in Gelang, and strong measures must be taken to reduce them. 
The vote for the year was $350. 
Expenditure : — 
$ c - 
Salary of Coolie, ... 96 00 
Transport, ••• 27 35 
Balance, ... 226 65 
Total, ...$350 00 
Government House Domain. 
12. The Government House grounds were handed over to the charge of the 
Botanic Gardens in January, after a lapse of 8 years, previous to which they were 
under the control of the Superintendent of Gardens. They were found to be in a 
very neglected state, and a great deal of work had to be done in cleaning and plant- 
ing. The Mandor, Mathias, resigned in March, and was replaced by. James. The 
tennis lawn in front of the House was raised, levelled and re-turfed, at a cost of $52.92, 
and*a piece of ground near the stables was planted with fruit trees and vegetables. 
The grass on the grounds was let out for five dollars a month, during the latter 
half of the year. . 
